.\" $Copyright: $
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: banner.6 1.5 1991/08/07 19:44:56 $
.TH BANNER 6 "\*(V)" "3BSD"
.SH NAME
banner \- print large banner on printer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/games/banner
[
.BI \-w n
]
message ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Banner
prints a large, high quality banner on the standard output.
If the message is omitted, it prompts for and
reads one line of its standard input.  If
.B \-w
is given, the output is scrunched down from a width of 132 to
.I n ,
suitable for a narrow terminal.  If
.I n
is omitted, it defaults to 80.
.PP
The output should be printed on a hard-copy device, up to 132 columns wide,
with no breaks between the pages. The volume is enough that you want
a printer or a fast hardcopy terminal, but if you are patient, a
decwriter or other 300 baud terminal will do.
.PP
An example usage of 
.I bannner
with output piped to printer 
.I lp2
is
shown below:
.IP "" 5n
/usr/games/banner "Welcome, Jim" | lpr -Plp2
.IP "" 5n
.SH BUGS
Several ASCII characters are not defined, notably <, >, [, ], \\,
^, _, {, }, |, and ~.  Also, the characters ", ', and & are funny
looking (but in a useful way.)
.PP
The
.B \-w
option is implemented by skipping some rows and columns.
The smaller it gets, the grainier the output.
Sometimes it runs letters together.
.SH AUTHOR
Mark Horton
