.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: fortune.6 1.5 90/05/07 $
.TH FORTUNE 6 "\*(V)" "4BSD"
.SH NAME
fortune \- print a random, hopefully interesting, adage
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/games/fortune
[
.B \-
] [
.B \-wslao
]
..[ file ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Fortune
with no arguments prints out a random adage. The flags mean:
.PP
.TP 5
.B \-w
Waits before termination
for an amount of time calculated from the number of characters in the message.
This is useful if it is executed as part of the logout procedure
to guarantee that the message can be read before the screen is cleared.
.TP 5
.B \-s
Short messages only.
.TP 5
.B \-l
Long messages only.
.TP
.B \-o
Choose from an alternate list of adages,
often used for potentially offensive ones.
.TP
.B \-a
Choose from either list of adages.
.SH MESSAGE FILE
.I Fortune 
gets messages from the file
.I /usr/games/lib/fortunes.dat.
This file contains only example messages.  To create
your own 
.I fortunes.dat
file, do the following:
.IP (1)
Create a file of messages in
.I /usr/games/lib
that follows this general format:
.nf

fortune message #1
%%
fortune message #2
%%
fortune message #3

.fi
If you choose to support the 
.B \-o
option of 
.I fortune,
create a separate message file with the same format but containing the
alternate messages.
.IP (2)
In 
.I /usr/games/lib
execute the following commands to create a new 
.I fortunes.dat
message file:
.nf

	% cat file1 > fortunes
	% echo "%-" >> fortunes
	% cat file2 >> fortunes
	% echo "%%" >> fortunes

.fi
where 
.I file1
is the file of general 
.I fortune
messages and
.I file2
is the optional file of alternate messages.
If you do not wish to include alternate messages in
.I fortunes.dat,
simply skip the command:
.nf

	% cat file2 >> fortunes

.fi	
when creating the message file.
.IP (3)
Either rename the existing
.I fortunes.dat
to another name or remove it completely.
Finally, execute the following commands in 
.I /usr/games/lib:
.nf

	% ./strfile fortunes
	% chown daemon fortunes.dat
	% chmod 0600 fortunes.dat

.fi
.SH FILES
/usr/games/lib/fortunes.dat - messages data file
.br
/usr/games/lib/strfile - tool to build messages data file
.SH AUTHOR
Ken Arnold
