.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: worm.6 1.4 86/05/13 $
.TH WORM 6 "\*(V)" "4BSD"
.SH NAME
worm \- Play the growing worm game
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/games/worm
[
.I size
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
In
.I worm,
you are a little worm, your body is the "o"'s on the screen
and your head is the "@".  You move with the hjkl keys (as in the game
snake).  If you don't press any keys, you continue in the direction you
last moved.  The upper case HJKL keys move you as if you had pressed
several (9 for HL and 5 for JK) of the corresponding lower case key
(unless you run into a digit, then it stops).
.PP
On the screen you will see a digit, if your worm eats the digit is will
grow longer, the actual amount longer depends on which digit it was
that you ate.  The object of the game is to see how long you can make
the worm grow.
.PP
The game ends when the worm runs into either the sides of the screen,
or itself.  The current score (how much the worm has grown) is kept in
the upper left corner of the screen.
.PP
The optional argument, if present, is the initial length of the worm.
.SH BUGS
If the initial length of the worm is set to less than one or more
than 75, various strange things happen.
