.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: exports.5 1.5 87/06/16 $
.\" @(#)exports.5 1.1 85/12/28 SMI;
.TH EXPORTS 5 "\*(V)" "4BSD"
.SH NAME
exports \- NFS file systems being exported
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/exports
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\".IX  "NFS exported file systems"  ""  "NFS exported file systems \(em \f2exportfs\fP"
The file
.I /etc/exports
describes the file systems that are exported to
.IR nfs (4)
clients.  It is created by the system administrator
using a text editor and processed by the
.I mount
request daemon
.IR mountd (8c)
each time a mount request is received.
.PP
The file consists of a list of file systems and the
.IR netgroup (5)
or machine names allowed to remote mount each file system.
The file system names are left justified and followed by
a list of names separated by white space.
The names will be looked up in
.I /etc/netgroup
and then in
.IR /etc/hosts .
A file system name with no name list following means export to everyone.
A ``#'' anywhere in the file indicates a comment
extending to the end of the line it appears on.
Lines beginning with white space are continuation lines.
.SH EXAMPLE
.PP
.\" .ft L
.nf
/usr	clients			# export to my clients
/usr/local			# export to the world
/usr2	phoenix sun sundae	# export to only these machines
.fi
.SH FILES
/etc/exports
.SH SEE ALSO
nfs(4), mountd(8c)
