.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986 Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.
.\" All rights reserved
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: appletalk.4f 1.4 87/08/05 $
.TH APPLETALK 4F "\*(V)" "DYNIX"
.SH NAME
appletalk \- AppleTalk protocol family
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <netat/atalk.h>
.SH DESCRIPTION
The AppleTalk protocol family provides basic communications for
AppleTalk datagram delivery packetized in Ethernet packets. It
provides protocol support only for the SOCK_DGRAM socket type.
Other protocols in the suite can be layered atop this facility using
the standard socket interfaces.
.SH ADDRESSING
AppleTalk addresses are four-byte quantities, stored in
network-standard format (on the Balance and Symmetry series the addresses are
word- and byte-reversed).  The include file
.RI < netat/atalk.h >
defines this address
as a discriminated union.
.PP
Sockets bound to the AppleTalk protocol family utilize
the following addressing structure:
.ta \w'struct\0\0\0'u +\w'struct a_addr\0\0\0\0\0'u +\w'at_dummy[8];\0\0\0\0'u
.Ps
struct	sockaddr_at {
	short	at_family;	/* AF_APPLETALK */
	struct a_addr	at_addr;	/* 4 bytes */
	u_char	at_sno;	/* ddp socket number */
	u_char	at_ptype;	/* ddp protocol type */
	char	at_dummy[8];	/* fill */
};
.Pe
.ta
where:
.ta \w'struct\0\0\0'u +\w'a_addr\0\0\0'u +\w'struct\0\0\0'u +\w'u_short\0\0\0'u
.Ps
struct	a_addr	{
	union	{
		struct	{
			u_short	Net;
			u_char	Node;
			u_char	Abridge;
		} at_chrs;
		long	Addr;
	} at_un;
};
.Pe
.ta
.ta \w'#define\0\0\0'u +\w'at_Abridge\0\0\0\0'u
.Ps
#define	at_Net		at_un.at_chrs.Net
#define	at_Node		at_un.at_chrs.Node
#define	at_Abridge	at_un.at_chrs.Abridge
#define	at_adr		at_un.Addr
.Pe
.ta
Sockets may be created with the address at_Net and at_Node equal
to zero (0) to effect \*(lqwildcard\*(rq matching on incoming messages. 
A connect() that specifies at_Net and at_Node equal to zero (0) returns
the current values for the host.
.SH PROTOCOLS
The AppleTalk protocol family consists of
the Datagram Delivery Protocol (DDP) only.
It is used to support the SOCK_DGRAM abstraction.
.SH SEE ALSO
ddp(4P)
