.\" $Copyright: $
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: autoconf.4 1.8 1991/05/24 01:42:04 $
.TH AUTOCONF 4 "\*(V)" "4BSD"
.SH NAME
autoconf \- diagnostics from the DYNIX autoconfiguration code
.SH DESCRIPTION
When DYNIX bootstraps, it probes the machine it is running
on and locates controllers, drives, and other devices, printing out
what it finds on the console.  This process is driven by a system
configuration table which is processed by
.IR config (8)
and compiled into each kernel.
.PP
Devices in SB8000 backplane slots are noted (processor boards,
memory controllers, SCED controllers, SSM controllers and MULTIBUS adaptors).
Devices which are deconfigured, or which failed powerup diagnostics,
are noted also.
.PP
Devices plugged into the SB8000 backplane are located by
a very deterministic procedure using each board's SLIC to determine
board types.
.PP
MULTIBUS, SCED SCSI or SSM SCSI devices are 
located by probing to see if their control-status
registers (or target adapters and units) respond.
If not, they are reported as not found.
.PP
A generic system may be built which allows the user to pick
its root device at boot time.
If such a system is booted with the RB_ASKNAME option of (see
.IR reboot (2)),
then the name of the root device is read from the console terminal at boot
time (as part of the boot string), and any available device may be used.
.SH SEE ALSO
intro(4), config(8)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
In general, DYNIX reports the SLIC id number of each of the boards
it finds in the SB8000 bus:

.B "%d processors; slic %d %d ..."
The processors listed in this message are available
for use by DYNIX.
.PP
.B "Not using processors: slic %d %d ..."
The processors listed in this message
are either deconfigured, or failed powerup diagnostics.
.PP
.B "%d MULTIBUS Adapters; slic %d %d ..."
The MULTIBUS adapters listed in this message were found in the system.
.PP
.B "No MULTIBUS Adapters"
No MULTIBUS adapters were found in the system.
.PP
.B "Not using MULTIBUS Adapters: slic %d %d ..."
The listed MULTIBUS adapters were not used by DYNIX
because they were deconfigured or failed powerup diagnostics.
.PP
.B "Not using memory boards: slic %d %d..."
The listed memory boards were not used; they were either deconfigured
or failed powerup diagnostics.
.PP
.B "Reserved memory has a hole; no reserved memory allocated."
The physical memory space reserved
by the configuration variable
.I resphysmem
contains a hole.
The existence of this hole has caused
DYNIX to ignore the request to
reserve physical memory.
.PP
.B "Not enough memory to reserve 0x%x bytes."
The system doesn't have enough physical memory
available to reserve the physical memory
requested by the configuration variable 
.I resphysmem.
DYNIX has ignored the request to
reserve physical memory.
.PP
.B "Physical memory [0x%x,0x%x] reserved for custom use."
The kernel has reserved physical memory
as requested by the 
.I resphsysmem
configuration variable.
.PP
.B "%d SCSI/Ether controllers; slic %d %d ..."
The listed SCSI/Ether controllers were found in the system.
.PP
.B "%d SSM controllers; slic %d %d ..."
The listed SSM controllers were found in the system.
.PP
.B "Not using SCSI/Ether Controllers: slic %d %d ..."
The listed SCSI/Ether controllers were deconfigured or failed
powerup diagnostics.
.PP
.B "Not using System Services Modules: slic %d %d ..."
The listed SSM controllers were deconfigured or failed
powerup diagnostics.
.PP
.B "Pseudo devices:"
The kind and number of pseudo devices
(those for which there is no corresponding physical device) are listed.
.sp .3
.in 5m
.RS
.B "%d pty"
Pseudo-terminals used by networking and some utilities.
.sp .3
.B "%d pmap"
Pseudo-driver that 
allows a user to map physical addresses into process's virtual address
space.
.RE
.PP
.B "MBAd DMA window at 0x%x."
The physical address of the quarter-megabyte MULTIBUS adapter I/O window
in the megabyte MULTIBUS address space.
.PP
.B "%s%d found at MBAd%d csr 0x%x, bin %d vec %d MB level %d, %d maps at %d"
This message reports the existence of a MULTIBUS controller
found on a MULTIBUS Adapter.
Some fields in the above message may be missing for some devices.
For example,
.br
"zt0\ at\ MBAd0\ csr\ 0x200,\ bin\ 5\ vec\ 0\ MB\ level\ 7,\ 34\ maps\ at\ 0"
.br
says that a Xylogics tape controller was found on MULTIBUS adapter 0,
at I/O address 0x200.
It interrupts DYNIX on bin 5 with interrupt vector 0.
On the MULTIBUS, it interrupts on MULTIBUS level 7.
It needed 34 MULTIBUS adapter map registers, maps 0 through 33.
.PP
.B "%s%d at MBAd%d csr 0x%x: MB level %d overlaps previous use."
The specified MULTIBUS controller has a MULTIBUS interrupt level
that conflicts with another controller on the same MULTIBUS adapter.
.PP
.B "%s%d at MBAd%d csr 0x%x: can't fit %d map registers."
The specified MULTIBUS controller requested more map registers
than were available on the specified MULTIBUS adapter.
.PP
.B "%s%d not found."
The specified controller (e.g. "zt0") was not found in the MULTIBUS.
.PP
.B "%s%d found at SEC%d target adapter %d unit %d bin %d vec %d input q %d output q %d"
This message describes a device found on a SCSI/Ether controller.
Some fields may be missing for some devices.
As an example,
.br
``sd0 found at SEC0 target adapter 6 unit 0 bin 5 vec 0 inputq 50 output q 50''
.br
describes a SCSI disk found on the SCSI bus at target adapter 6, logical unit 0.
It will interrupt DYNIX on interrupt bin 5 with vector 0.
The length of the device input queue (for commands to the SCSI/Ether
controller) and output queue (for acknowledgements from the SCSI/Ether
controller) are 50 entries.
As another example,
.br
``se0 found at SEC0 bin 5 vec 3 inputq 200 outputq 200''
.br
and
.br
``se1 found at SEC0 bin 5 vec 4 inputq 10 outputq 10''
.br
are the lines describing the Ethernet interface on the
SCSI/Ether controller.
The first line describes the Ethernet input device; the second
the Ethernet output device.
.PP
.B "%s%d not found."
The listed SCSI/Ether device was not found in the system.
.PP
.B "Too many vectors in bin %d."
An internal consistency check failed; there were too many
interrupts allocated to the interrupt bin listed in the message.
.PP
.B "WARNING: Swap partition[%d], dev=(%d,%d) does not exist."
The swap partition listed in the message exists on a disk
that was not found in the system.
.PP
.B "illegal config: %s device can't be probed for wildcards."
A device with no probe routine was wildcarded in the configuration.
With no probe routine, there is no way to attempt to find
the specified device.
.PP
.B "SEC_probe: invalid config: non-scsi device has unit wildcard"
SCSI/Ether devices that are not on the SCSI bus should not have
unit numbers wildcarded in the configuration file.
.PP
.B "%s%d: ioconf.c error, already initialized: target %d unit %d"
An error exists in the ioconf.c configuration file.
Somehow, DYNIX attempted to initialize the same device on
the SCSI/Ether controller twice.
.PP
.B "can't initialize SCSI/Ether controller %d: status %d"
The SCSI/Ether controller listed in the message could not
be initialized.
This may be a sign of a hardware problem in the SCSI/Ether
controller.
.PP
.B "MBAd%d: can't map c-list (%d maps needed, %d available)."
There were not enough maps available to map terminal c-lists
in the specified MULTIBUS adapter.
.PP
.B "c-list @ MBAd%d: %d maps @ %d."
This message describes the number and location of MULTIBUS
adapter maps allocated for terminal character lists (c-lists).
.PP
.B "MBAd%d: %d maps unused."
Some MULTIBUS adapter map registers were unused.
