.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: gate.4 1.7 87/08/04 $
.TH GATE 4 "\*(V)" "DYNIX"
.SH NAME
gate \- SLIC gate usage
.SH DESCRIPTION
Drivers in DYNIX need to use gates, locks, and semaphores.
Since the SLIC chip provides a finite number of gates to build
these constructs, the gates must be allocated to the various
functions in the operating system.
.PP
Of the 64 gates currently supported by the SLIC chip, the last
10 are pre-allocated by the DYNIX kernel for the purpose of
building device-drivers and related code.
These gates are defined in
.IR /sys/machine/gate.h ,
via:
.PP
.RS
.nf
#define	G_DRIVERMIN	54
#define	G_DRIVERMAX	63
.fi
.RE
.PP
The current usage of gates by the drivers supported by DYNIX
is given below:
.RS
.nf
.ta +\w'tty[hijk]*  'u +\w'MULTIBUS Systech MTI-800/1600  'u
ttyc*	SEC Console Ports	54
rts*	SEC Tape	57
sd*	SEC Disk	58
se*	SEC Ether	59
tty[hijk]*	MULTIBUS Systech MTI-800/1600	61
xp*	MULTIBUS Xylogics 450 Disk	62
xt*	MULTIBUS Xylogics 472 Tape	62
.fi
.RE
.PP
The implementation of sleep()/wakeup()
for mono-processor drivers uses gate 63.
This gate is not used unless there are
mono-processor drivers in the system.
.PP
The typical use of gates in a driver is to build locks and semaphores.
Since these constructs hold the gate for brief periods,
contention on the gate is low.
Thus it is acceptable to use a given gate in multiple drivers.
.PP
Most drivers configure the gate(s) they're using in their binary
configuration file
(for example in
.IR /sys/conf/conf_sd.c ),
using a line like:
.RS
gate_t  sdgate = 58;
.RE
.PP
This technique is recommended since it removes the dependency
on an explicit gate from the driver source.
This also better supports the ability to tune the usage of the gates
for a given hardware/software configuration.
.SH FILES
.TP \w'/sys/machine/gate.h\0'u
/sys/machine/gate.h
defines SLIC gate usage
.TP
/sys/conf/conf_*.c
driver binary-configuration files
.SH CAVEAT
This description is implementation specific and subject to change.
There will always be at least 10 gates pre-allocated
to driver purposes, however.
.SH BUGS
A more dynamic allocation strategy for gates might be better.
