.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: icmp.4p 1.5 87/05/26 $
.\" @(#)icmp.4p 1.1 85/12/28 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.TH ICMP 4P "\*(V)" "4BSD"
.SH NAME
icmp \- Internet Control Message Protocol
.SH SYNOPSIS
None; included automatically with
.IR inet (4F).
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\".IX  "icmp device"  ""  "\f2icmp\fP \(em Internet Control Message Protocol"  ""  PAGE START
.\".IX  Internet  "control message protocol icmp"  ""  "control message protocol \(em \f2icmp\fP"  PAGE START
The Internet Control Message Protocol (ICMP) is used by
gateways and destination hosts that process datagrams to communicate
errors in datagram-processing to source hosts.
The datagram level of Internet is discussed in
.IR ip (4P).
ICMP uses the basic support of IP as if it were a higher level protocol;
however, ICMP is actually an integral part of IP.
ICMP messages are sent in several situations, such as
when a datagram cannot reach its destination,
when the gateway does not have the buffering capacity to forward a datagram,
and when the gateway can direct the host to send traffic on a shorter route.
.LP
The Internet protocol is not designed to be absolutely reliable.  The purpose
of these control messages is to provide feedback about problems in the
communication environment, not to make IP reliable.  There are still no
guarantees that a datagram will be delivered or that a control message will
be returned.  Some datagrams can  be undelivered without any
report of their loss.  The higher level protocols that use IP must implement
their own reliability mechanisms, if reliable communication is required.
.LP
The ICMP messages typically report errors in the processing of datagrams;
for fragmented datagrams, ICMP messages are sent only about errors in
handling fragment zero of the datagram.
To avoid the infinite regression of messages about messages, no ICMP messages
are sent about ICMP messages.  However, ICMP can be sent in response to
ICMP messages (for example, ECHOREPLY).
There are eleven types of ICMP packets that can be received by the system.
They are defined in
.RI < netinet/ip_icmp.h >,
which also defines the values of some additional codes specifying
the cause of certain errors.
.if t .ta \w'ICMP_SOURCEQUENCH\0\0\0\0'u
.if n .ta \w'ICMP_SOURCEQUENCH\0\0'u
.Ps
ICMP_ECHOREPLY	echo reply
ICMP_UNREACH	dest unreachable, codes:
.if t .ta \w'ICMP_'u +\w'ICMP_UNREACH_PROTOCOL\0\0\0\0'u
.if n .ta \w'ICMP_'u +\w'ICMP_UNREACH_PROTOCOL\0\0'u
	ICMP_UNREACH_NET	bad net
	ICMP_UNREACH_HOST	bad host
	ICMP_UNREACH_PROTOCOL	bad protocol
	ICMP_UNREACH_PORT	bad port
	ICMP_UNREACH_NEEDFRAG	IP_DF caused drop
	ICMP_UNREACH_SRCFAIL	src route failed
.if t .ta \w'ICMP_SOURCEQUENCH\0\0\0\0'u
.if n .ta \w'ICMP_SOURCEQUENCH\0\0'u
ICMP_SOURCEQUENCH	packet lost, slow down
ICMP_REDIRECT	shorter route, codes:
.if t .ta \w'ICMP_'u +\w'ICMP_UNREACH_PROTOCOL\0\0\0\0'u
.if n .ta \w'ICMP_'u +\w'ICMP_UNREACH_PROTOCOL\0\0'u
	ICMP_REDIRECT_NET	for network
	ICMP_REDIRECT_HOST	for host
	ICMP_REDIRECT_TOSNET	for tos and net
	ICMP_REDIRECT_TOSHOST	for tos and host
.if t .ta \w'ICMP_SOURCEQUENCH\0\0\0\0'u
.if n .ta \w'ICMP_SOURCEQUENCH\0\0'u
ICMP_ECHO	echo service
ICMP_TIMXCEED	time exceeded, code:
.if t .ta \w'ICMP_'u +\w'ICMP_UNREACH_PROTOCOL\0\0\0\0'u
.if n .ta \w'ICMP_'u +\w'ICMP_UNREACH_PROTOCOL\0\0'u
	ICMP_TIMXCEED_INTRANS	ttl==0 in transit
	ICMP_TIMXCEED_REASS	ttl==0 in reass
.if t .ta \w'ICMP_SOURCEQUENCH\0\0\0\0'u
.if n .ta \w'ICMP_SOURCEQUENCH\0\0'u
ICMP_PARAMPROB	ip header bad
ICMP_TSTAMP	timestamp request
ICMP_TSTAMPREPLY	timestamp reply
ICMP_IREQ	information request
ICMP_IREQREPLY	information reply
.Pe
Arriving ECHO and TSTAMP packets cause the system to generate
ECHOREPLY and TSTAMPREPLY packets.  IREQ packets are not yet processed
by the system, and are discarded.   UNREACH, SOURCEQUENCH, TIMXCEED and
PARAMPROB packets are processed internally by the protocols implemented
in the system, or reflected to the user if a raw socket is being used;
see
.IR ip (4P). 
REDIRECT, ECHOREPLY, TSTAMPREPLY and IREQREPLY are also reflected
to users of raw sockets.  In addition, REDIRECT messages cause the
kernel routing tables to be updated; see
.IR routing (4N).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
inet(4F), ip(4P)
.br
Internet Control Message Protocol, RFC792, J. Postel, USC-ISI
.SH BUGS
IREQ messages are not processed properly: the address fields
are not set.
.LP
Messages that are source routed are not sent back using inverted source routes,
but go back through the normal routing mechanisms.
.\".IX  "icmp device"  ""  "\f2icmp\fP \(em Internet Control Message Protocol"  ""  PAGE END
.\".IX  Internet  "control message protocol icmp"  ""  "control message protocol \(em \f2icmp\fP"  PAGE END
