.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: inet.4f 1.12 87/08/05 $
.TH INET 4F "\*(V)" "4BSD/DYNIX"
.SH NAME
inet \- Internet protocol family
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.br
.B #include <netinet/in.h>
.SH DESCRIPTION
The Internet protocol family is a collection of protocols
layered atop the
.I Internet Protocol
(IP) transport layer, and utilizing the Internet address format.
The Internet family provides protocol support for the
SOCK_STREAM, SOCK_DGRAM, and SOCK_RAW socket types; the
SOCK_RAW interface provides access to the IP protocol.
.SH ADDRESSING
Internet addresses are four-byte quantities, stored in
network-standard format (on the Balance and Symmetry series these are
word- and byte-reversed).  The include file
.RI < netinet/in.h >
defines this address
as a discriminated union.
.PP
Sockets bound to the Internet protocol family utilize
the following addressing structure:
.ta \w'struct\0\0\0'u +\w'struct in_addr\0\0\0\0\0'u
.Ps
struct	sockaddr_in {
	short	sin_family;
	u_short	sin_port;
	struct in_addr	sin_addr;
	char	sin_zero[8];
};
.Pe
Sockets may be created with the address INADDR_ANY
to effect
.I wildcard
matching on incoming messages. 
The address in a
.IR connect (2)
or
.IR sendto (2)
call may be given as INADDR_ANY to mean
.IR "this host" .
The distinguished address INADDR_BROADCAST
is allowed as a shorthand for the broadcast address on the primary
network if the first network configured supports broadcast.
.SH PROTOCOLS
The Internet protocol family is comprised of
the IP transport protocol, Internet Control
Message Protocol (ICMP), Transmission Control
Protocol (TCP), and User Datagram Protocol (UDP).
TCP is used to support the SOCK_STREAM
abstraction while UDP is used to support the SOCK_DGRAM
abstraction.  A raw interface to IP is available
by creating an Internet socket of type SOCK_RAW.
The ICMP message protocol is accessible from a raw socket.
.PP
The 32-bit Internet address contains both network and host parts.
Sites with a cluster of local networks and a connection to the DARPA
Internet may chose to use a single network number for the cluster;
this is done by using subnet addressing.
The local (host) portion of the address is further subdivided
into subnet and host parts.
Within a subnet, each subnet appears to be an individual network;
externally, the entire cluster appears to be a single, uniform
network requiring only a single routing entry.
Subnet addressing is enabled and examined by the following
.IR ioctl (2)
commands on a datagram socket in the Internet domain;
they have the same form as the
SIOCIFADDR command (see
.IR intro (4N)).
.PP
.TP 20
SIOCSIFNETMASK
Set interface network mask.
The network mask defines the network part of the address;
if it contains more of the address than the address type would indicate,
then subnets are in use.
.TP 20
SIOCGIFNETMASK
Get interface network mask.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
ioctl(2),
socket(2),
icmp(4P),
intro(4N),
ip(4P),
tcp(4P),
udp(4P),
ifconfig(8C)
.SH CAVEAT
The Internet protocol support is subject to change as
the Internet protocols develop.  Users should not depend
on details of the current implementation, but rather
the services exported.
