.\" $Copyright: $
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
.\"
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.  This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: intro.4 1.14 1991/06/13 00:06:04 $
.TH INTRO 4 "\*(V)" "4BSD/DYNIX"
.SH NAME
intro \- introduction to special files and hardware support
.SH DESCRIPTION
This section describes the special files, related driver functions,
and networking support
available in the system.
In this part of the manual, the SYNOPSIS section of
each configurable device gives a sample specification
for use in constructing a system description for the
.IR config (8)
program.
The DIAGNOSTICS section lists messages which may appear on the console
and in the system error log
.I /usr/adm/messages
due to errors in device operation.
.PP
This section contains both devices
which may be configured into the system, ``4'' entries,
and network related information,
``4N'', ``4P'', and ``4F'' entries;
The networking support is introduced in
.IR intro (4N).
.SH "Sequent Balance and Symmetry series device support"
This section describes the hardware supported on the Sequent Balance and 
Symmetry machines.
Software support for these devices comes in two forms.  A hardware
device may be supported with a character or block
.IR "device driver" ,
or it may be used within the networking subsystem and have a
.IR "network interface driver" .
Block and character devices are accessed through files in the file
system of a special type; c.f.
.IR mknod (8).
Network interfaces are indirectly accessed through the interprocess
communication facilities provided by the system; see
.IR socket (2).
.PP
A hardware device is identified to the system at configuration time
and the appropriate device or network interface driver is then compiled
into the system.  When the resultant system is booted, the
autoconfiguration facilities in the system probe for the device.
The autoconfiguration system is described in
.IR autoconf (4).
A list of the supported devices is given below.
.SH SEE ALSO
intro(4),
intro(4N),
autoconf(4),
config(8)
.SH "LIST OF DEVICES"
The devices listed below are supported in this version of
the system.  Devices are indicated by their functional interface.
If second vendor products provide functionally identical interfaces
they should be usable with the supplied software.
(\f3Beware however that we promise the software works
ONLY with the hardware indicated on the appropriate manual page.\fP)
.sp
.ta 1.0i
.nf
drum	Paging device
lp	Systech parallel line printer interface
mem	Main memory
mr	Disk mirror
null	Null device
pmap	Physiscal memory mapper
pty	Pseudo terminal driver
sd	SCED SCSI disk controller
se	SCED Ethernet interface
smem	SCED memory driver
sp	SSM parallel line printer interface
st	Systech MTI-800/1600 communications multiplexor
tg	SSM SCSI 1/2-inch magnetic tape interface
tm	SSM SCSI tape controller
ts	SCED SCSI tape controller
usclk	32-bit microsecond counter
wd	SSM SCSI disk controller
xp	Xylogics 450 MULTIBUS disk interface
xt	Xylogics 472 MULTIBUS magtape interface
zd	Sequent dual-channel disk controller
.fi
