.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
.V= $Header: lp.4 1.6 90/10/15 $
.TH LP 4 "\*(V)" "DYNIX"
.SH NAME
lp \- Systech parallel line printer interface
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "device lp0 at mbad? csr 0x400 maps 2 bin 4 intr 2"
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I lp
device driver supports the Systech MLP-2000 controller for
line printers using the Centronics or Dataproducts parallel interfaces.
It supports up to two line printers per controller.
The standard controller names consist of ``lp'' followed by the
controller unit number (e.g. lp0, lp1).
.PP
The unit number of the printer is specified by the minor device number.
The standard device names consist of ``lp'' followed by the line
printer unit number
(e.g. lp0, lp1).
Each device is exclusive access on open.
.PP
Each controller occupies 32 contiguous bytes of MULTIBUS I/O address space
starting at the csr address.
.SH CONFIGURATION
The default characteristics
include aligning to top of form on open and close, 132 columns, and
66 lines per page.
Lines longer than the maximum line length are silently truncated.
.PP
Each printer can be configured for special characteristics,
including line lengths, column lengths,
and special modes.  The special modes are:
upper case only mode and
raw mode.
.PP
In normal mode,
the driver interprets
newlines, backspaces, tabs, and form feeds.
Tab stops are every 8 columns starting at column 8 (i.e. 8, 16, 24...).
Most printers can operate in both print and plot modes
using the normal operation mode.
.PP
In the upper case only mode, lower case letters are mapped
into upper case.  Other characters are mapped to similar characters
overstruck with ``-'' according to the following table:
.PP
.TS
center;
c c.
Input	Mapped to

{	\o"-("
}	\o"-)"
\`	\o"-\'"
|	\o"\-!"
~	\o"\-^"
.TE
.PP
Raw mode provides an eight-bit data path to the printer.
Tabs, formfeeds, newlines and other special characters
are not expanded, and no line or page adjustments are made.
.PP
The configuration options are specified in a table in the binary
configuration file,
.IR /sys/conf/conf_lp.c .
The first column specifies the line length.  The second column
specifies the number of lines per page.  The third column specifies
the mode.
The printer characteristics are indexed by the minor number
of the device. If the minor number is greater than the 
number of entries in
the array, the configuration options for the last entry in the table
are used.
.PP
For example, if you had the following hardware configuration:
.sp
.TS
l r r l.
printer 0	80 columns	25 lines	upper case only 
printer 1	132 columns	25 lines	raw
printer 2	132 columns	96 lines	normal
printer 3	80 columns	66 lines	normal
printer 4	132 columns	66 lines	normal
printer 5	132 columns	66 lines	normal
.TE
.bp
you could use the following configuration table:
.sp
.TS
l l l l l r.
struct	lp_printer	lpconfig[] = {

/*	cols,	ht,	special_map 
					*/	
{	80,	25,	LPCAPS	} ,	/* 0 */	
{	132,	25,	LPRAW	} ,	/* 1 */	
{	132,	96,	LPDEFAULT	} ,	/* 2 */	
{	80,	66,	LPDEFAULT	} ,	/* 3 */	
{	132,	66,	LPDEFAULT	} ,	/* 4 */	
};
.TE
.PP
Note that the sixth printer (number 5) is not specified
in the configuration but will have the same
characteristics as printer number 4.
.PP
The default configuration is as follows:
.sp
.TS
l l l l l r.
struct	lp_printer	lpconfig[] = {

/*	cols,	ht,	special_map
					*/	
{	132,	66,	LPDEFAULT	} ,	/* 0 */	
{	132,	66,	LPDEFAULT	} ,	/* 1 */	
};
.TE
.SH "BUFFER SIZE"
The number of maps specified in the entry for the controller in the
kernel configuration file determines the size of the data buffer.
The maximum buffer size per printer is 8K bytes.
Each printer is allocated half the number of maps specified for
its controller (since each controller supports up to two printers).
Each map results in 1K bytes of buffering.  Thus in the example
listed in the
.BR SYNOPSIS ,
each printer connected to lp0 has a 1K-byte buffer.
.SH FILES
/dev/lp*
.br
/sys/conf/conf_lp.c 
.SH "SEE ALSO"
lpr(1), pr(1), printcap(5)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
None.
