.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: mem.4 1.8 86/05/13 $
.TH MEM 4 "\*(V)" "4BSD/DYNIX"
.SH NAME
mem, kmem, kMBmem, kMWmem \- main memory
.SH DESCRIPTION
.lg
.I Mem
is a special file that is an image of the main memory
of the computer.
It may be used, for example, to examine
(and even to patch) the system.
.PP
Byte addresses in
.I mem
are interpreted as physical memory addresses.
References to non-existent locations cause errors to be returned.
.PP
Examining and patching device registers is likely
to lead to unexpected results when read-only or write-only
bits are present.
.PP
The file
.I kmem
is the same as 
.I mem
except that kernel virtual memory
rather than physical memory is accessed.
.PP
The files
.I kMBmem
and
.I kMWmem
represent MULTIBUS address space,
consecutively mapped 1 megabyte per MULTIBUS controller,
starting at 0 for the first controller.
(Deconfigured controllers still reserve their own address space.)
Accesses via
.I kMBmem
are one byte at a time, while accesses via
.I kMWmem
are two bytes at a time (one 16-bit word).
.SH "MAPPING INTERFACES
Through the
.IR mmap (2)
system call, these memory files may be mapped,
subject to the following restrictions:
.TP
.I /dev/mem
All of what
.I /dev/mem
can access through read and write system calls may be mapped;
that is, contiguous physical memory starting at physical address zero
(limited by reserved memory, if any).
ENXIO results if a mapping attempts to reference memory outside of this range.
.I /dev/mem
maps as non-paged memory (MM_NPMEM).
.TP
.I /dev/kmem
All of what
.I /dev/kmem
can read and write may be mapped.
A read-write file descriptor may not be used to map any part of system code.
Parts of the system address space that change dynamically will map
to a generic page if the relevant part of the system address space
is invalid at the time of the map.
This generic page is initially zero, but is subject to change
as the result of a PROT_WRITE mapping.
.I /dev/kmem
maps as non-paged memory (MM_NPMEM).
.TP
.IR /dev/kMBmem , \0/dev/kMWmem
All of what these devices can read or write may be mapped.
A mapping request cannot cross an MBAd boundary,
and must be made to an existing MBAd.
There is no checking to prevent a mapping request from referencing
non-existent MBAd or I/O address space.
These devices map as physical maps (MM_PHYS).
.SH FILES
/dev/mem
.br
/dev/kmem
.br
/dev/kMBmem
.br
/dev/kMWmem
.SH BUGS
Memory files
.I /dev/mem
and
.I /dev/kmem
are accessed one byte at a time,
an inappropriate method for some device registers.
