.\" $Copyright:	$
.\"Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\"Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\"This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\"only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\"inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\"be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\"other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\"hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: mr.4 1.1 89/09/29 $
.TH MR 4 "\*(V)" "DYNIX"
.SH NAME
mr \- Sequent Symmetry mirror disk pseudo-device
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "pseudo-device mirror 8"
.SH DESCRIPTION
This pseudo-device driver provides disk mirroring.  Disk mirroring
provides a logical disk device that automatically maintains two
identical copies of data, called mirror
.I units.
.PP
Each mirror unit resides on a disk partition; any two
partitions of DCC (Dual-Channel Disk Controller) disks can be used
as mirror units.
Unless a smaller size has been specified with the
.B mirror
command, the total 
space available on each disk mirror is equal to one disk block less
that on the smaller of the two partitions.
The maximum number of mirrors is specified by the
line
``pseudo-device mirror
.IR "n" "''"
in the kernel configuration file.
.PP
A disk mirror looks like a disk
partition to applications, and likewise may contain either a filesystem
or raw data.  Each mirror has its own minor device number.
The standard block device names begin with ``mr'', followed by the
mirror number.  Character (raw) device names begin with ``rmr''.
There are no partition letters as there are for real disks.
.PP
The block devices use the system's normal buffering mechanism and
may be read and written without regard to physical disk records.
There is also a `raw' interface which provides for direct transmission
between the disks underlying the mirror and the user's read or write buffer.
A single read or write call at the DCC level results in exactly one
I/O operation; therefore, raw I/O is considerably more efficient when
many words are transmitted.  Raw mirror writes translate into two raw
DCC writes.  Raw mirror reads translate into one raw DCC read unless
there is a read error, in which case two raw DCC reads are done.
.PP
All raw I/O counts must be a multiple of 512 bytes (a disk sector)
and must begin on 16-byte aligned memory addresses.
.PP
This device driver does not keep the ``milliseconds per seek'' statistic,
and is not known to the
.B iostat
command.
.SH FILES
.if n .ta 2.5i
.if t .ta 1.75i
.I "/dev/mr*	"
block files
.br
.I "/dev/rmr*	"
raw files
.br
.I "/sys/conf/conf_mirror.c	"
binary configuration file
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mirror (8),
.BR zd (4)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Errors during normal operation are signaled to the mirror driver by the DCC
.B zd
driver,
which it calls.  In response to such errors, the mirror driver
stops using the unit that erred, turns on the front panel's disk error light
(on S81s), and reports the error to the console.  The erring unit
is marked as bad, and the mirror label is rewritten to both units.
Errors caused by writing labels to bad units are ignored.
.PP
If the error occurs on a read, the read operation restarts on the
mirror's other unit.
.PP
If both units of a mirror go bad, the mirror is deactivated, no
further I/O is allowed, and all queued I/O requests fail.
.PP
You can check the status and configuration of a machine's
mirror devices at any time by invoking the
.B mirror
command with no arguments.
.PP
The following error messages can be reported by the mirror driver:
.PP
.nf
.B "Mirror %d unit %d read failed, block maj %d min %d"
.fi
.RS
This error message indicates a read failure and will normally be
preceded by a DCC
error message describing that failure. The mirror number is the
minor device number of the mirror device. Usually, the device will be
named
.I /dev/mr%d .
The unit number is either 0 or 1 and identifies
which half of the mirror reported an error.  The block major and minor
device numbers identify the DCC disk partition on which the error occurred.
Refer to the
.BR zd (4)
man page for details.
.RE
.PP
.nf
.B "Mirror %d unit %d write failed, block maj %d min %d"
.fi
.RS
This error message indicates a write failure and will normally be
preceded by a DCC
error message describing that failure. The information printed is the
same as described previously for read errors.
.RE
.PP
.nf
.B "Mirror %d: error labeling unit %d block dev maj = %d, min = %d"
.fi
.RS
This error message means that the mirror driver got a write error back
from the DCC when it tried to write the label to a unit
that had not yet failed. The information printed is the same as for
read and write errors, described previously.
.RE
.PP
.nf
.B "Mirror %d unit %d failure"
.fi
.RS
This error message is always preceded by one of the three I/O error messages
described previously.  It indicates that the unit specified is no longer
in service and will not be used as part of the specified mirror except for
an attempt at relabeling should the other unit fail or should the mirror
be deactivated by the system administrator.  For details, refer to the
.BR mirror (8)
man page.
.RE
.PP
.nf
.B "Mirror %d: all units bad, deactivating"
.fi
.RS
This error message is always preceded by the unit failure message
described previously.  It indicates that both units of the specified
mirror have failed and the mirror is being deactivated, as if the
system administrator had invoked a command of the form
.BI "unmirror" " /dev/mr%d." 
No further I/O is permitted to that mirror until the mirror is
reactivated by the system administrator.
Refer to the
.BR mirror (8)
man page for details.
.RE
