.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
.\"
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.  This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: se.4 1.9 86/08/18 $
.TH SE 4 "\*(V)" "DYNIX"
.SH NAME
se \- Balance 8000 10 Mb/s Ethernet interface
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "device se0 at sec? doneq 200 req 200 bin 6 unit 0	# input side"
.br
.B "device se0 at sec? doneq 10 req 10 bin 6 unit 1	# output side"
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I se
interface provides access to a 10 Mb/s Ethernet network through
a Balance 8000 SCSI/Ethernet/Diagnostics (SCED) Board.
.PP
The host's Internet address is specified at boot time with an SIOCSIFADDR
ioctl.
The
.I se
interface employs the address resolution protocol described in
.IR arp (4P)
to dynamically map between Internet and Ethernet addresses on the local
network.
.PP
The description used by
.I config
requires two lines to describe each ether interface:
one line for the input side and one line for the output side.
.SH BINARY CONFIGURATION
The file /sys/conf/conf_if_se.c contains configuration
information for the
.I se
interface that is used by the
.I se
driver.
The variables defined in the binary configuration file are:
.IP "se_gate" \w'se_gateMMMMM'u
This is the SLIC gate that the
.I se
driver uses for synchronization.
It should be one of the gate numbers allocated in
/sys/machine/gate.h to device drivers (G_DRIVERMIN through G_DRIVERMAX).
.IP "se_watch_interval"
How often (in seconds) the
.I se
driver collects packet statistics from the SCED Ether controller.
It is usually 60, causing statistics to be gathered once a minute.
.IP "se_write_iats"
The number of IATs (scatter/gather i/o entries) allocated per controller.
This number should not be changed.
.IP "se_bin"
The DYNIX interrupt bin number (interrupt level) with which the SCED Ether
controller is to interrupt DYNIX.
This should be bin 5.
.IP "se_mtu"
The maximum packet size that the Balance will transmit.
Defaults to ETHERMTU
(1500,
as defined by the Ethernet spec).
Use a lower value only if one or more other systems on the net cannot
accept full-size packets.
DO NOT change ETHERMTU.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
\f3se%d: can't allocate %d mbufs!.\fP
At interface boot time, the driver was unable to allocate a
sufficient number of mbufs for device input.
.PP
\f3se%d: can't handle address family %d.\fP
The interface was handed a message with addresses formatted
in an unsuitable address family; the packet was dropped.
.PP
\f3se%d: can't initialize sec %d.\fP
The interface is unable to initialize a SCED Board
for Ethernet input.
.PP
\f3se%d: invalid device chan %d (0x%x) in boot routine.\fP
The interface boot routine was given an invalid device to initialize.
This indicates some kind of software error in the Balance system.
.PP
\f3se%d: invalid interrupt vector %d.\fP
An invalid interrupt vector was passed to the interface
interrupt routine.
The interrupt was ignored.
.PP
\f3se%d: invalid unit in init.\fP
An invalid (non-configured or non-functional) SCED Board
was passed to the interface init routine.
The init request is ignored.
.PP
\f3se%d: se_add_read_progs: ran off end: shouldn't have!.\fP
An internal consistency check within the driver failed.
This implies a serious software error in the Ethernet interface.
.PP
\f3se%d: se_handle_read: status 0x%x.\fP
.br
\f3se%d: se_intr: status 0x%x.\fP
.br
\f3se%d: se_set_mode: status 0x%x.\fP
.br
\f3se%d: se_start: status 0x%x.\fP
.br
\f3se%d: se_watch: status 0x%x.\fP
.br
\f3se%d: se_handle_read: status 0x%x.\fP
An unexpected status was returned when trying to send a command
to the SCED Board.
.PP
\f3se: sec_start_prog(%d, cib 0x%x, slic %d, bin %d, vec %d, splok %d): takes too long!.\fP
The SCED Board is not responding to commands from the interface.
.SH FILES
/sys/conf/conf_if_se.c		binary configuration file
.SH SEE ALSO
intro(4N), inet(4F), arp(4P)
.SH BUGS
Once an interface is brought up via
.IR ifconfig (8C),
the only way to disable it is to issue another
.I ifconfig
with a phony Internet address.
.PP
The PUP protocol family should be added.
.PP
Having to specify the device in two lines to
.I config
is an odd consequence of the way we talk to the Ethernet device.
