.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986 Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.
.\" All rights reserved
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
.V= $Header: sp.4 1.1 90/09/20 $
.TH SP 4 "\*(V)" "DYNIX"
.SH NAME
sp \- SSM parallel line printer interface
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "device sp0 at ssm? bin 5 unit ?"
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I sp
device driver supports the SSM controller for
line printers using the Centronics or Dataproducts parallel interfaces.
It supports one line printer per controller.
.PP
The unit number of the printer is specified by the minor device number.
The standard device names consist of ``sp'' followed by the line
printer unit number
(e.g. sp0, sp1).
.I sp
devices are exclusive-access devices; that is, only one
process may open a device at a time.
.SH CONFIGURATION
The default characteristics
include aligning to top of form on an open or close, 132 columns, and
66 lines per page.
Lines longer than the maximum line length are truncated silently. 
.PP
Each printer can be configured for special characteristics,
including line lengths, special modes, and interface type. 
The special modes are:
upper-case only mode and
raw mode.
.PP
In normal mode,
the driver interprets
newlines, backspaces, tabs, and form feeds.
Tab stops are every 8 columns starting at column 8 (8, 16, 24...).
Most printers can operate in both print and plot modes
using the normal operation mode.
.PP
In the upper-case only mode, lower-case letters are mapped
into upper case.  Other characters are mapped to similar characters
overstruck with ``-'' according to the following table:
.PP
.TS
center;
c c.
Input	Mapped to

{	\o"-("
}	\o"-)"
\`	\o"-\'"
|	\o"\-!"
~	\o"\-^"
.TE
.PP
Raw mode provides an eight-bit data path to the printer.
Tabs, formfeeds, newlines and other special characters
are not expanded, and no line or page adjustments are made.
.PP
The interface type is defined as follows:
.PP
.TS
center;
l l.
Value	Definition

0	Centronics interface
1	Data Products interface
.TE
.PP
The configuration options are specified in a table in the binary
configuration file,
.IR /sys/conf/conf_sp.c .
The first column specifies the line length.  The second column
specifies the number of lines per page.  The third column specifies
the mode.
The printer characteristics are indexed by the minor number
of the device. If the minor number is greater than the 
number of entries in
the array, the configuration options for the last entry in the table
are used.
.PP
For example, suppose that you had the
following hardware configuration:
.sp
.TS
tab (+);
l r r lw(2i) l.
printer 0+80 columns+upper-case only+Centronics 
printer 1+132 columns+raw+Data Products
printer 2+132 columns+normal+Data Products
printer 3+80 columns+normal+Centronics
printer 4+132 columns+normal+Centronics
printer 5+132 columns+normal+Centronics
.TE
.sp
For this configuration, you could use the
following configuration table:
.sp
.TS
tab (:);
l l l l l r.
struct:sp_printer:spconfig[] = {:::

/*:cols,:special_map,:interface::*/	
{:80,:SPCAPS,:0:} ,:/* 0 */	
{:132,:SPRAW,:1:} ,:/* 1 */	
{:132,:SPDEFAULT,:1:} ,:/* 2 */	
{:80,:SPDEFAULT,:0:} ,:/* 3 */	
{:132,:SPDEFAULT,:0:} ,:/* 4 */	
};:::::
.TE
.PP
Note that the sixth printer (number 5) is not specified
in the configuration but will have the same
characteristics as printer number 4.
.PP
The default configuration is as follows:
.sp
.TS
tab (:);
l l l l l r.
struct:sp_printer:spconfig[] = {:::

/*:cols,:special_map,:interface::*/	
{:132,:SPDEFAULT,:0:} ,:/* 0 */	
};:::::
.TE
.SH FILES
/dev/sp*
.br
/sys/conf/conf_sp.c 
.SH "SEE ALSO"
lpr(1), pr(1), printcap(5)
