.\" $Copyright: $
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: st.4 1.16 1991/06/12 23:41:11 $
.TH ST 4 "\*(V)" "DYNIX"
.SH NAME
st \- Systech MTI-1650 terminal multiplexor driver
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "device st0 at mbad? csr 0x200 maps 0 bin 4 intr 3"
.SH DESCRIPTION
An MTI-1650 provides 16 serial lines.
Each line of the MTI-1650 is configurable to support a modem or a terminal.
.PP
Each line attached to the MTI-1650 terminal multiplexor
behaves as described in
.IR tty (4).
Input and output for each line may independently
be set to run at any of the following speeds:
.BR "B50" ,
.BR "B75" ,
.BR "B110" ,
.BR "B134" ,
.BR "B150" ,
.BR "B300" ,
.BR "B600" ,
.BR "B1200" ,
.BR "B1800" ,
.BR "B2400" ,
.BR "B4800" ,
.BR "B9600" ,
and
.BR "B19200" .
.PP
The hardware signals DTR and RTS are enabled when
the line is opened and disabled when the line is closed.
These signals may be changed via ioctl calls to the device driver
and are not used in in automatic flow control.
Break detection and generation are also supported.
See
.IR tty (4)
for the encoding scheme. 
.PP
The initial baud rate and line state for all lines
are defined by the \*(lqstspeed\*(rq and \*(lqstflags\*(rq variables
in the binary configuration file,
.IR /sys/conf/conf_st.c .
These values are usually overridden (e.g., by
.IR getty (8))
when a line is opened.
.SH FLAGS
The \*(lqflags\*(rq value in a \*(lqdevice st\*(rq entry
in the kernel configuration file is ignored.
.SH AUTODIALER SUPPORT
For normal Systech operation, DCD must be active to allow the 
USART receiver to operate.
A port can be
.I specially
wired to support an auto-dial modem
(both dial-out
.I and
dial-in on the same line)
without requiring the modem's DCD to be active.
The special rewiring consists of the following steps.
.TP 4
1)
Disconnect pins 4 (RTS), 8 (DCD), 6 (DSR)
from the modem to the Sequent system.
.TP 4
2)
Loop pin 4 (RTS) to pin 8 (DCD) on the backpanel board
of the Sequent system.
.TP 4
3)
Connect pin 8 (DCD) from the modem to
pin 6 (DSR) 
on the Sequent system.
.PP
The following table illustrates the specially-wired
connection.
.sp
.TS
c l c l
c l c l
n l n l.
Sequent system		Terminal
(Male conn.)		(Female conn.)
Pin #		Pin #

2	to	2	TxD driven by Sequent system
3	to	3	RxD driven by Modem
5	to	5	CTS driven by Modem
6	to	8	DCD driven by Modem
7	to	7	Signal Ground
20	to	20	DTR driven by Sequent system

.T&
l s s s.
T{
.ll 6i
Pin 4 is looped back to Pin 8 on the Sequent system side.
T}
.TE
.PP
Refer to
.IR ttyconfig(8)
for information on how to set the software configuration
to support Systech lines used for auto-dial modems.
Refer to the
.I "Sequent System Installation Guide"
for a description of standard wiring for Sequent terminals and modems.
.PP
A high-to-low transition on the auto-dialer's DCD output
is interpreted as a hangup signal. 
.SH FILES
/dev/tty[h-k][0-f]
/sys/conf/conf_st.c
.SH "SEE ALSO"
tty(4), ttyconfig(8)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
For a complete description of Systech MTI-1650 error codes, refer to
the Systech 
.I "MTI-850/1650B Multiple Terminal Interface Technical Manual"
or call your Sequent Service Representative.
.SH "BUGS"
The DMA input capability of the terminal multiplexor board
is not currently used by this device driver.
This may result in excessive overrun errors under heavy load.
