.\" $Copyright: $
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986 Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.
.\" All rights reserved
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: usclk.4 1.5 1991/08/06 22:47:57 $
.TH USCLK 4 "\*(V)" "DYNIX"
.SH NAME
usclk - 32-bit microsecond counter
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
device usclk0 at mbad? csr 0x40000		(Balance ONLY)
.PP
pseudo-device usclk	1			(Symmetry ONLY)
.SH DESCRIPTION
This device provides access to a 32-bit counter which increments
every microsecond.
This counter can be used to do fine-grain
timing studies on program execution.
This device does not support read() and write() system call access.
To access the counter,
this device must be mapped into a process's memory (see
\f2mmap\f1(2)).
Only one page of usclk memory can be mapped into a process (see
\f2getpagesize\f1()).
Requests to mmap more will fail.
The device can only be mapped READ ONLY.
Generally, this device should be accessed only through the
.IR usclkinit (3)
and
.IR getusclk (3)
library functions. 
.PP
The implementation of this device is different for Symmetry and
Balance systems.
.PP
The following are some considerations for these systems.
.PP
.B Balance Systems:
.PP
The counter is implemented by a special multibus peripheral.
In order to use this counter,
this board must be purchased from Sequent and installed.
Installation instructions for the board are included with the board.
For \s-2DYNIX\s0 software to access the board, the usclk
driver must be configured into the kernel.  
.PP
After mapping the device, the counter values are available
only in the first 4 bytes of the mapping.
Access to other
locations in the page will return unpredictable values, or
may even cause a SIGBUS signal.
There is a small probability
such invalid accesses will cause \s-2DYNIX\s0 to panic.
.PP
Since the multibus is a 16-bit bus, 32-bit accesses to
this timer are split into two multibus transfers.
This can cause some error in the value returned.
The routine
.IR getusclk (3)
reads the counter in such a way so as to guarantee
accurate results.
However, these accesses are slow.
Reading the 32-bit timer takes about 25 microseconds.
.PP
.B Symmetry systems:
.PP
Symmetry systems implement this counter as a set of 32-bit
registers on the processor boards.
Each processor has its own counter register.
But, the initialization and
incrementing of these counter registers is synchronized
across all processor boards.
The resulting effect is
as though there were only one counter register.
However, accessing this counter involves no accesses off the
processor board.
So, by mapping the device into the
process's address space, the overhead of accessing the counter
is essentially zero.
.PP
Since this timer implementation is integral to the
hardware, the software for accessing it is always activated.
.SH ERRORS
.TP 10
ENXIO
an open request is denied because
.I /dev/usclk
has a minor device number greater than one,
or the usclk board was not found at boot time (Balance only).
.TP 10
ENOSPC
an mmap request tried to map more than one page of the usclk device.
Refer to
.IR getpagesize (2).
.TP 10
EINVAL
an attempt was made to map with write access.
