.\" $Copyright: $
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987 Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.
.\" All rights reserved
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: wd.4 1.3 1991/04/16 16:04:48 $
.TH WD 4 "\*(V)" "DYNIX"
.SH NAME
wd \- SSM SCSI disk controller
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "device wd0 at ssm? bin 5 maps 200 target 0 unit 0"
.B "device wd1 at ssm? bin 5 maps 200 target 4 unit 0"
.SH DESCRIPTION
This device driver controls SCSI disk
with embedded targets ("embedded SCSI" disks).
It supports up to seven embedded SCSI disks per SSM board.
.PP
The lower 3 bits of the minor of the special file refers to partitions
0-7 while the next 8 bits refers to the drive number, the remaining 5 bits
complete the partition number.
Special files with minor partition numbers 0\-15 and unit number 0
refer to partitions a\-p on drive ``wd0''
(the first drive listed in the kernel configuration file),
where \f2n\fP is the drive number
and \f2x\fP is the partition name (a\-h).
.PP
Block devices access the disk via the system's normal
buffering mechanism, and may be read and written without regard to
physical disk records.
There is also a ``raw'' interface
that provides for direct transmission between the disk
and the user's read or write buffer.
A single read or write call results in exactly one I/O operation,
and therefore raw I/O is considerably more efficient when
many words are transmitted.
The names of the raw special files
conventionally begin with an extra ``r''
\(em e.g., ``rwd0a''.
Raw transfers are limited to a maximum of 256 512-byte sectors.
In raw I/O, counts must be a multiple of 512 bytes,
and must begin on 16-byte aligned memory addresses.
Likewise,
.I lseek
calls should specify a multiple of 512 bytes.
.SH BINARY CONFIGURATION
Before attempting to add a new disk or target adapter,
read the disk and target adapter manuals thoroughly.
The main information needed is how to set the target adapter
number and drive-select cabling.
.PP
.B Table of disk units.
.br
The ``wd_bconf'' array in
the device driver binary configuration file
(\f2/sys/conf/conf_wd.c\fP)
must contain an entry for each drive that may be configured;
the entries must be in the same order as the ``device''
entries in the kernel configuration file
(kernel configuration
files are described in the article
``Building DYNIX Systems with Config'' in Volume 2).
When adding a new drive,
make sure that the corresponding entry in ``wd_bconf''
points to the partition table for the appropriate drive type.
(As installed, ``wd_bconf'' has entries for 7 drives,
all using the same partition table.
Superfluous entries are ignored;
you must add more entries if you have more than 7 drives.)
.PP
.B Partition tables.
.br
The binary configuration file
contains one or more partition tables,
defined as arrays of 8 ``wd_partition'' structures.
Each partition table gives the starting address and size
(in 512-byte sectors) of the 8 partitions on a particular type of disk.
To support a new disk layout, add a new partition table
to the binary configuration file,
using an existing table as a template.
.PP
.SH TUNING PARAMETERS
The following tuning parameters are defined for each drive
in the ``wd_bconf'' array
of the binary configuration file:
(1) The number of IATs (indirect access table entries, used for scatter/gather
I/O). The maximum number of IATs ever used is 64, since this will map 128K
transfer.
.PP
.B IATs.
.br
An indirect access table is used to map a contiguous I/O buffer in virtual
memory to the corresponding pages scattered throughout physical memory.
Each table entry (IAT) can map up to 2048 bytes.
The number of IATs  determines the maximum transfer size for each read/write
request.
.PP
.SH FILES
/dev/wd?[a-h]		block files
.br
/dev/rwd?[a-h]		raw files
.br
/sys/conf/conf_wd.c	binary configuration file
.SH SEE ALSO
df(1), diskpart(8)
.SH "STAND-ALONE EQUIVALENCE"
The convention for specifing a SCSI disk from stand-alone code is:
.br
		wd(\f3u\fP,\f3p\fP)
.br
where \f3u\fP refers to the unit number and \f3p\fP refers to the 
partition number. Each SCSI controller may have 8 unit numbers
There may be 8 controllers on a SCSI bus.
The assignment of unit number depends on whether the target adapter is
embedded or not.
The partition is a number 0-256, (partition 256 refers to the whole disk).
.nf

\s+1Separate target adapter:\s-1
	\f3u\fP = SCED board number x 512
		  + SCSI target adapter type x 64
	          + SCSI target number x 8
		  + SCSI unit number
	\f3p\fP = partition number.
.fi
Note that type is currently always 0, and the adapter starts at 6 and
decreases to 0;
.nf

\s+1Embedded target adapter:\s-1
	\f3u\fP = SCED board number x 512
	          + SCSI target number x 8
	\f3p\fP = partition number.
.fi

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
.B "Embedded controller internal recovery and error reporting"
.PP
.RS
See the ANSI X3T9.2 (SCSI) specification.
.RE
.PP
.B "Firmware and SCSI bus level errors (reported as HARD errors)
.PP
.RS
Command Block Busy
.br
Bad Command Block
.br
No Target
.br
SCSI Bus Error
.RE
.PP
.B "SCSI target adapter errors"
.PP
.RS
Recovered Error
.in +.5i
SOFT error message, for information only
.in -.5i
Unit Attention
.in +.5i
Totally ignored
.in -.5i
.br
Medium Error
.br
Hardware Error
.br
Illegal Request
.br
Data Protect
.br
Blank Check
.br
Vendor Unique
.br
Copy Aborted
.br
Aborted Command
.br
Equal
.br
Volume Overflow
.br
Miscompare
.br
Unrecognized Completion Code
.in +.5i
Retried four times with soft error messages; fifth error produces
Hard Error message
.in -.5i
.RE
.SH BUGS
In raw I/O,
.IR read (2)
and
.IR write (2)
truncate file offsets to 512-byte block boundaries,
and
.IR lseek (2)
should always deal in 512-byte multiples.
.PP
A program to analyze the logged error information (even in its
present reduced form) is needed.
.PP
The partition tables for the file systems should be read from each
disk, as they are never quite what any single installation would prefer,
and this would make disks more portable.
.PP
The kernel ``milliseconds per seek'' statistic is not kept for this
device; thus,
.IR iostat (1)
always reports zero for this statistic.
.PP
When a request to the disk accesses past the end of media
(for example, a non-existent block number),
the device driver will report soft errors
followed by a hard error in the same way that a bad block is treated.
There is no special handling of the volume overflow sense error code
for disks.
