.\" $Copyright: $
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: xp.4 1.11 1991/04/16 16:04:42 $
.TH XP 4 "\*(V)" "DYNIX"
.SH NAME
xp \- Xylogics 450 MULTIBUS disk interface
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "controller xy0 at mbad? csr 0x0100 maps 34 bin 5 intr 0"
.SH DESCRIPTION
Files with minor device numbers 0 through 7 refer to various portions
of drive 0;
minor devices 8 through 15 refer to drive 1, etc.
The standard device names begin with ``xp'' followed by
the drive number and then a letter a-h for partitions 0-7 respectively.
The character ? stands here for a drive number in the range 0-7.
The various controllers are referred to as ``xy''
followed by the controller number.
.PP
The block file's access the disk via the system's normal
buffering mechanism and may be read and written without regard to
physical disk records.
There is also a `raw' interface
which provides for direct transmission between the disk
and the user's read or write buffer.
A single read or write call results in exactly one I/O operation
and therefore raw I/O is considerably more efficient when
many words are transmitted.
The names of the raw files
conventionally begin with an extra `r.'
.PP
In raw I/O counts should be a multiple of 512 bytes (a disk sector).
Likewise
.IR lseek (2)
calls should specify a multiple of 512 bytes.
.PP
You should specify at least 12 maps in the
.IR config (1)
file for each MULTIBUS disk controller.
The MULTIBUS disk controllers must be strapped for 24-bit operation.
.PP
The driver will recognise drives with and without 
VTOC
(Volume Table of Contents).
If the disk does not contain a 
VTOC
the driver will use the compatibility information hard coded in the driver.
.SH COMPATIBILITY BINARY CONFIGURATION
When building a kernel with MULTIBUS disk, be sure that
the binary configuration information in /sys/conf/conf_xp.c
is up to date.
The constants and variables defined in conf_xp.c include:
.IP "XPCTLR" \w'xp_unitXXXXX'u
The maximum number of controllers supported by the driver.
.IP "MAXBUFSIZE"
The maximum buffer size for ioctl system calls (probably shouldn't
be changed).
.IP "eagle_size"
Partition tables for the Fujitsu Eagle disk drive.
.IP "cdc9766_size"
Partition tables for the CDC 9766 disk drive.
.IP "cdc9762_size"
Partition tables for the CDC 9762 disk drive.
.IP "xpst"
This is an array indexed by drive type.
It probably should not be changed.
.IP "xpunits"
This array describes the controller and transport
assignments that will be supported by the system.
Typically this describes wildcarding across all drive
and controller combinations (forcing the device driver
to probe each controller to find which disk drives are
physically present).
It is indexed by the drive field of the minor device number.
.sp .5
As a common example, the following xpunits configuration declares
that we hope to find four Fujitsu Eagles in our system,
and that they may appear on any
.I xy
controller:
.in +0.5i
.RS
.sp .5
.nf
struct	xp_unit	xpunits[] = {
/*	 ctlr	drive	partn tables	ctlr info */
	{ ANY,	ANY,	&xpst[XPST_EAGLE],	0 },	/* any ctlr, any drive */
	{ ANY,	ANY,	&xpst[XPST_EAGLE],	0 },	/* any ctlr, any drive */
	{ ANY,	ANY,	&xpst[XPST_EAGLE],	0 },	/* any ctlr, any drive */
	{ ANY,	ANY,	&xpst[XPST_EAGLE],	0 },	/* any ctlr, any drive */
};
.sp .5
.fi
.RE
.IP "xpmaxretry"
The maximum number of times to retry errors.
.SH "DISK SUPPORT"
The driver supports the
Fujitsu 2351A ``Eagle'' disk drive.
Other drives may be added to the configuration tables.
The origin and size (in sectors) of the partitions
on each drive are as follows:
.PP
.nf
.ta .5i +\w'000000    'u +\w'000000    'u +\w'000000    'u +\w'000000    'u
.PP
Fujitsu ``Eagle'' partitions
	disk	start	length	cyls
	xp?a	\0\0\0\0\00	\015884	\0\00 - \016
	xp?b	\016560	\066880	\018 - \090
	xp?c	\0\0\0\0\00	774640	\0\00 - 841
	xp?d	375360	\015884	408 - 425
	xp?e	408960	307200	426 - 759
	xp?f	699200	\072680	760 - 838
	xp?g	375360	396520	408 - 838
	xp?h	\093720	291346	\091 - 407
.DT
.fi
.PP
It is unwise for all of these files to be present in one installation,
since there is overlap in addresses and protection becomes
a sticky matter.
The xp?a partition is normally used for the root file system,
the xp?b partition as a paging area,
and the xp?c partition for pack-to-pack copying
and manipulating the bad block information,
as it maps the entire disk.
Except for the xp?c partition,
the last three cylinders are reserved for
diagnostics and bad block information.
.SH FILES
.ta 2i
/dev/xp[0-7][a-h]	block files
.br
/dev/rxp[0-7][a-h]	raw files
.br
/sys/conf/conf_xp.c	binary configuration file
.br
/etc/diskinfo/*	disk geometry files
.br
.SH "STAND-ALONE EQUIVALENCE"
The convention for specifing a Multibus disk from stand-alone code is:
.br
		xp(\f3u\fP,\f3p\fP)
.br
where \f3u\fP refers to the unit number and \f3p\fP refers to the 
partition number. Each Multiobus controller may have 8 unit numbers
for each of 8 types (only one type is currently supported so the controller
type is now alway zero), each Multibus adapter may have 8 controllers.
The partition is a number 0-256, (partition 256 refers to the whole disk).
.nf
	\f3u\fP = Multibus adapter board number x 512
		  + controller type x 64 (0)
		  + controller number x 8
	          + drive number.
	\f3p\fP = partition number.
.fi

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.BR "xp\f2np\fP\ soft\ error,\ compcode=0x\f2nn\ error\ description" .
The MULTIBUS disk device driver 
encountered a soft error on the specified operation,
and will try the operation again.
This message is accompanied by the following lines:
.PP
.DT
.nf
.B "	filesystem blkno = \f2nnnn\fP"
.B "	(for addbad) physical sector = \f2mmmm\fP"
.B "	(for xpformat) cylinder = \f2cc\fP; head = \f2hh\fP; sector = \f2ss\fP"
.fi
.PP
If you see several soft errors at the same disk sector,
you should run diagnostics on the disk,
and use the DYNIX
.IR addbad (8)
command to add the sector to the disk's bad-sector list.
.PP
.BR "xp\f2np\fP\ HARD\ ERROR,\ compcode=0x\f2nn\ error\ description" .
The MULTIBUS disk device driver 
gave up on the specified operation 
after retrying it a predefined number of times 
and receiving a soft error on each try.
You will need to use the DYNIX
.IR addbad (8)
command to add the specified sector to the disk's bad-sector list.
.PP
During autoconfiguration, 
a message will appear on the console 
indicating the type of drive that was recognized.
For example:
.PP
.DT
.B "	xp%d at xy%d drive %d: Eagle"
.SH SEE ALSO
addbad(8), vtoc(5), newfs(8), xpformat(8s), prtvtoc(8), mkvtoc(8)
.SH BUGS
In raw I/O
.I read
and
.IR write (2)
truncate file offsets to 512-byte block boundaries,
and
.I write
scribbles on the tail of incomplete blocks.
Thus,
in programs that are likely to access raw devices,
.I read, write
and
.IR lseek (2)
should always deal in 512-byte multiples.
.PP
The partition tables for the file systems should be read off of each
pack, as they are never quite what any single installation would prefer,
and this would make packs more portable.
.PP
Currently, DYNIX will not be able to boot if there is an unformatted
disk drive on any configured disk controller.
It is sufficient to power off the disk drive in order to boot.
