.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: disktab.5 1.7 90/03/19 $
.TH DISKTAB 5 "\*(V)" "4BSD"
.SH NAME
disktab \- disk description file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <disktab.h>
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Disktab
is a simple date base which describes disk geometries and
disk partition characteristics.  The format is patterned
after the
.IR termcap (5)
terminal data base.  Entries in 
.I disktab
consist of a number of `:' separated fields.  The
first entry for each disk gives the names which are
known for the disk, separated by `|' characters.  The
last name given should be a long name fully identifying
the disk. 
.PP
The following list indicates the normal values
stored for each disk entry.
.nf

.ta \w'Name  'u +\w'Type  'u
\f3Name	Type	Description\fP
ns	num	Number of sectors per track
nt	num	Number of tracks per cylinder
nc	num	Total number of cylinders on the disk
ba	num	Block size for partition `a' (bytes)
bd	num	Block size for partition `d' (bytes)
be	num	Block size for partition `e' (bytes)
bf	num	Block size for partition `f' (bytes)
bg	num	Block size for partition `g' (bytes)
bh	num	Block size for partition `h' (bytes)
fa	num	Fragment size for partition `a' (bytes)
fd	num	Fragment size for partition `d' (bytes)
fe	num	Fragment size for partition `e' (bytes)
ff	num	Fragment size for partition `f' (bytes)
fg	num	Fragment size for partition `g' (bytes)
fh	num	Fragment size for partition `h' (bytes)
pa	num	Size of partition `a' in sectors
pb	num	Size of partition `b' in sectors
pc	num	Size of partition `c' in sectors
pd	num	Size of partition `d' in sectors
pe	num	Size of partition `e' in sectors
pf	num	Size of partition `f' in sectors
pg	num	Size of partition `g' in sectors
ph	num	Size of partition `h' in sectors
ft	str	Disk Format type (e.g. dec144, zdc)
rm	num	number of revolutions per minute
se	num	Sector size in bytes
ty	str	Type of disk (e.g. removable, winchester)
.fi
.PP
.I Disktab
entries may be automatically generated with the
.I diskpart
program.
.SH FILES
/etc/disktab
.SH "SEE ALSO"
newfs(8), diskpart(8)
.SH BUGS
This file shouldn't exist, the information should be
stored on each disk pack.
