.\" $Copyright: $
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: group.5 1.7 1991/08/06 22:49:23 $
.\" @(#)group.5 1.1 85/12/28 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.TH GROUP 5 "\*(V)" "4BSD"
.SH NAME
group \- group file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/group
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "group file"  ""  "\fLgroup\fP \(em group file format"
For each group,
.I group
contains the following fields:
group name,
encrypted password,
numerical group ID,
and a comma separated list of all users allowed in the group.
.PP
This is an
.SM ASCII
file.  The fields are separated by colons;
each group is separated from the next by a new-line.
If the password field is null, no password is demanded.
.PP
Because the passwords are encrypted,
the file has general read permission and can be
used to map numerical group ID's to names, for example.
.PP
A group file can have a line beginning with a plus (+),
which means to incorporate entries from the yellow pages.
There are two styles of + entries:
All by itself, + means to insert the entire contents
of the yellow pages group file at that point;
.I +name
means to insert the entry (if any) for
.I name
from the yellow pages at that point.
If a + entry has a non-null password or group member field,
the contents of that field override
what is contained in the yellow pages.
The numerical group ID field cannot be overridden.
.SH EXAMPLE
.PP
.\" .ft L
.nf
+myproject:::bill, steve
+:
.fi
.PP
If these entries appear at the end of a group file,
the group
.I myproject
has members
.I bill
and
.IR steve ,
and the password and group ID of the yellow pages entry for the group
.IR myproject .
All of the groups listed in the yellow pages
are pulled in and placed after the entry for
.IR myproject .
.SH FILES
/etc/group
.br
/etc/yp/group
.SH "SEE ALSO"
passwd(1),
setgroups(2),
crypt(3),
initgroups(3),
passwd(5)
.SH BUGS
The
.IR passwd (1)
command won't change group passwords.
