.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: hosts.equiv.5 1.2 87/04/07 $
.\" @(#)hosts.equiv.5 1.1 85/12/28 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.TH HOSTS.EQUIV 5 "\*(V)" "4BSD"
.SH NAME
hosts.equiv \- list of trusted hosts
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\f3/etc/hosts.equiv\fP
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "hosts.equiv file"  ""  "\fLhosts.equiv\fP \(em trusted hosts list"
.IX  "trusted hosts list"  ""  "trusted hosts list \(em \fLhosts.equiv\fP"
.I Hosts.equiv
contains a list of trusted hosts.
If a host makes a
.IR rlogin (1)
or
.IR rsh (1)
request,
and the initiator of the request is in
.IR /etc/passwd ,
no further validity checking is done.
In other words,
.I rlogin
does not prompt for a password, and
.I rsh
completes successfully.
Therefore,
a remote user is equivalenced to a local user
with the same user ID when the remote user is in
.IR hosts.equiv .
.PP
The format of
.I hosts.equiv
is a list of names, as in this example:
.Ps
.\" .ft L
host1
host2
+@group1
-@group2
.Pe
A line consisting of a simple host name
means that anyone logging in from that host is trusted.
A line consisting of
.I +@group
means that all hosts in that network group are trusted.
A line consisting of
.I \-@group
means that hosts in that group are not trusted.
Programs scan
.I hosts.equiv
linearly, and stop at the first hit
(either positive for hostname and +@ entries,
or negative for \-@ entries).
A line consisting of a single +
means that everyone is trusted.
.PP
The
.I .rhosts
file has the same format as
.IR hosts.equiv .
When user
.I XXX
executes
.I rlogin
or
.IR rsh ,
the
.I .rhosts
file from
.IR XXX 's
home directory is conceptually concatenated onto the end of
.I hosts.equiv
for permission checking.
However, \-@ entries are not sticky.
If a user is excluded by a minus entry from
.I hosts.equiv
but included in
.IR .rhosts ,
then that user is considered trusted.
In the special case when the user is root,
then only the
.I /.rhosts
file is checked.
.PP
It is also possible to have two entries
(separated by a single space)
on a line of these files.
In this case, if the remote host is equivalenced by the first entry,
then the user named by the second entry is allowed to log in as anyone,
that is, specify any name to the
.B \-l
flag (provided that name is in the
.I /etc/passwd
file, of course).
Thus
.Ps
.\" .ft L
sundown john
.Pe
allows
.I john
to log in from sundown as anyone.  The usual usage would be
to put this entry in the
.I .rhosts
file in the home directory for
.IR bill .
Then
.I john
may log in as
.I bill
when coming from sundown.
The second entry may be a netgroup, thus
.Ps
.\" .ft L
+@group1 +@group2
.Pe
allows any user in
.I group2
coming from a host in
.I group1
to log in as anyone.
.SH FILES
.nf
/etc/hosts.equiv
/etc/yp/\f2domain\f1/netgroup
/etc/yp/\f2domain\f1/netgroup.byuser
/etc/yp/\f2domain\f1/netgroup.byhost
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
rlogin(1),
rsh(1),
netgroup(5)
