.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: L-dialcodes.5 1.3 87/08/05 $
.TH L-DIALCODES 5 "\*(V)" "4BSD"
.\"
.\"	@(#)L-dialcodes.5	6.1 (Berkeley) 4/24/86
.\"
.UC 6
.SH NAME
L-dialcodes \- UUCP phone number index file 
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I L-dialcodes
file defines the mapping of strings from the phone number field of
.IR L.sys (5)
to actual phone numbers.
.PP
Each line in L-dialcodes has the form:
.PP
.nf
	alpha_string  phone_number
.fi
.PP
The two items can be separated by any number of blanks or tabs. Lines beginning
with a `#' character are comments.
.PP
A phone number in
.I L.sys
can be preceded by an arbitrary alphabetic character string; the string
is matched against the list of
.IR alpha_string s
in
.IR L-dialcodes .
If a match is found,
.I phone_number
is substituted for it. If no match is found, the string is discarded.
.PP
.I L-dialcodes
is commonly used either of two ways:
.TP 4
(1)
The alphabetic strings are used as prefixes to denote area codes, zones,
and other commonly used sequences. For example, if
.I L-dialcodes
included the following lines:
.PP
.nf
	chi	1312
.br
	mv	1415
.fi
.PP
In
.I L.sys
you could enter:
.PP
.nf
	chivax Any ACU 1200 chi5551234  ogin:--ogin: nuucp
.br
	mvpyr  Any ACU 1200 mv5556001   ogin:--ogin: Uuucp

instead of

	chivax Any ACU 1200 13125551234  ogin:--ogin: nuucp
.br
	mvpyr  Any ACU 1200 14155556001  ogin:--ogin: Uuucp
.fi
.TP 4
(2)
All phone numbers are placed in
.IR L-dialcodes ,
one for each remote site.
.I L.sys
then refers to these by name. For example, if
.I L-dialcodes
contains the following lines:
.PP
.nf
	chivax	13125551234
.br
	mvpyr	14155556601
.fi
.PP
then
.I L.sys
could have:
.PP
.nf
	chivax Any ACU 1200 chivax  ogin:--ogin: nuucp
.br
	mvpyr  Any ACU 1200 mvpyr   ogin:--ogin: Uuucp
.fi
.PP
This scheme allows a site administrator to give users read access to the
table of phone numbers, while still protecting the login/password sequences
in
.IR L.sys .
.SH FILES
/usr/lib/uucp/L-dialcodes
.SH SEE ALSO
uucp(1C), uux(1C), L.sys(5), uucico(8C)
