.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: mntent.5 1.6 89/09/25 $
.\" @(#)mntent.5 1.1 85/12/28 SMI;
.TH MNTENT 5 "\*(V)" "4BSD"
.SH NAME
mntent \- static information about filesystems
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <mntent.h>
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "mntent file"  ""  "\fLmntent\fP \(em file system static information"
.IX  "file system"  "mntent file"  ""  "\fLmntent\fP \(em static information"
.IX  "static file system information mntent"  ""  "static file system information \(em \fLmntent\fP"
The file
.I /etc/fstab
describes the file systems and swapping partitions used by the local machine.
It is created by the system administrator using a text editor
and processed by commands which mount, unmount, check consistency of,
dump and restore file systems, and by the system in providing
swap space.
.LP
It consists of a number of lines of the form:
.Ps
\f2fsname dir type opts freq passno\fP
.Pe
\f1an example of which would be:
.Ps
/dev/zd0a / 4.2 rw,noquota 1 2
.Pe
The entries from this file are accessed using the routines in
.IR getmntent (3),
which returns a structure of the following form:
.ta \w'struct\0\0'u +\w'char\0\0'u +\w'*mnt_fsname;\0\0\0'u
.Ps
struct mntent {
	char	*mnt_fsname;	/* file system name */
	char	*mnt_dir;	/* file system path prefix */
	char	*mnt_type;	/* 4.2, nfs, swap, or ignore */
	char	*mnt_opts;	/* ro, quota, etc. */
	int	mnt_freq;	/* dump frequency, in days */
	int	mnt_passno;	/* pass number on parallel fsck */
};
.Pe
The fields are separated by white space,
and a `#' as the first non-white character indicates a comment.
If a field is null,
you must place a period (\.) there as a placeholder.
.LP
The
.I mnt_type
field determines how the 
.I mnt_fsname
and 
.I mnt_opts
fields are interpreted.
Below is a list of the file system types currently supported and
the way each of them interprets these fields.
.LP
.B 4.2
.IP mnt_fsname 12
Must be a block special device.
.IP mnt_opts 12
Valid opts are ro, rw, quota, noquota.
.LP
.B NFS
.IP mnt_fsname 12
The path on the server of the directory to be served.
.IP mnt_opts 12
Valid opts are ro, rw, quota, noquota, hard, soft, intr.
.LP
.B SWAP
.IP mnt_fsname 12
Must be a block special device swap partition.
.IP mnt_opts 12
Ignored.
.LP
If the
.I mnt_type
is specified as ``ignore'' the entry is ignored.
This is useful to show disk partitions which are currently not used.
.LP
The field \fImnt_freq\fP indicates how often each partition should
be dumped by the
.IR dump (8)
command (and triggers that commands \fBw\fP option which tells
which file systems should be dumped).
Most systems set the \fImnt_freq\fP field to 1 indicating that the
file systems are dumped each day.
.LP
The final field \fImnt_passno\fP is used by the disk consistency
check program
.IR fsck (8)
to allow overlapped checking of file systems during a reboot.  All
file systems with \fImnt_passno\fP of 1 are first checked simultaneously,
then all file systems with \fImnt_passno\fP of 2, and so on.
It is usual to make the \fImnt_passno\fP of the root file system have
the value 1 and then check one file system on each available disk
drive in each subsequent pass to the exhaustion of file system partitions.
.LP
The file
.I /etc/fstab
is only
.I read
by programs and not written;
it is the duty of the system administrator to properly create 
and maintain this file.
The order of records in
.I /etc/fstab
is important because
.IR fsck ,
.IR mount ,
and
.I umount
process the file sequentially; file systems must appear
after file systems within which they are mounted.
.SH FILES
/etc/fstab
.SH "SEE ALSO"
getmntent(3),
fsck(8),
mount(8),
umount(8)
