.\" $Copyright:	$
.\"Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\"Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\"This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\"only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\"inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\"be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\"other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\"hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: mrtab.5 1.1 89/09/29 $
.\" @(#)mrtab.5 1.0 85/12/28 SMI;
.TH MRTAB 5 "\*(V)" "DYNIX"
.SH NAME
mrtab \- static information about disk mirrors
.SH DESCRIPTION
The file
.I /etc/mrtab
describes the configuration of disk mirrors on the local machine.
It is read by disk mirroring commands
.B mirror
and
.BR unmirror .
The file consists of a number of lines of the form:
.PP
.I "mirror_name  unit0   unit1"
.PP
For example:
.PP
.RS
/dev/mr0   /dev/zd1c   /dev/zd2c
.RE
.PP
The three fields are separated by white space;
a pound-sign (``#'')
starts a comment which continues to the end of the line.
.PP
The 
.I mirror_name
is a fully qualified pathname to a mirror device inode.
.PP
The two unit fields
.RI ( unit0
and
.IR unit1 )
are fully qualified pathnames to the two DCC disk partitions that contain
the the mirror's units.
.PP
The
.I /etc/mrtab
file is only read by programs and never written by programs;
the system administrator must maintain it manually with a text editor.
.PP
If a disk mirror contains a filesystem, the filesystem and mirror
are typically specified in the file
.I /etc/fstab .
.SH FILES
.I /etc/mrtab
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mirror (8),
.BR mr (4),
.BR fstab (5)
