.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: mtab.5 1.9 90/02/07 $
.\" @(#)mtab.5 1.1 85/12/28 SMI;
.TH MTAB 5 "\*(V)" "4BSD"
.SH NAME
/etc/mtab \- mounted file system table
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <mntent.h>
.PP
.B /etc/mtab
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "mtab file"  ""  "\fLmtab\fP \(em mounted file system table"
.IX  "mounted file system table"  ""  "mounted file system table \(em \fLmtab\fP"
.IX  "file system"  "mounted table"  ""  "mounted table \(em \fLmtab\fP"
.I Mtab
contains a table of filesystems currently mounted by the
.I mount
command.
.I Umount
removes entries from this file.
.PP
The file contains a line of information for each mounted filesystem,
structurally identical to the contents of
.IR /etc/fstab ,
described in
.IR fstab (5).
There are a number of lines of the form:
.sp 1
	\fIfsname dir type opts freq passno\fR
.sp 1
for example:
.sp 1v
	/dev/zd0a / 4.2 rw,noquota 1 2
.PP
The file is read by programs using
.IR getmntent (3),
and modified by programs such as
.I mount(8)
and
.I umount(8).
.SH FILES
/etc/mtab
.SH "SEE ALSO"
getmntent(3),
fstab(5),
mount(8)
