.\" $Copyright: $
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: passwd.5 1.11 1991/08/06 22:49:28 $
.\" @(#)passwd.5 1.1 85/12/28 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.TH PASSWD 5 "\*(V)" "4BSD"
.SH NAME
passwd \- password file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/passwd
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "passwd file"  ""  "\fLpasswd\fP \(em password file"
.LP
For each user,
the
.I passwd
file contains the following information:
.TP 10
.I login
This is the user's login name.
It contains less than nine lower-case characters.
.TP 10
.I password
This is the encrypted password.
.TP 10
.I "user ID"
This is the user's unique, system ID number.
This can range from zero (reserved for root) to 65,536.
.TP 10
.I "group ID"
This is the group number of the group to which the user belongs.
This also ranges from zero (again reserved) to 65,536.
.TP 10
.I name
In some versions of \s-2UNIX\s0, such as \s-2DYNIX\s0,
this field can contain the user's office number,
office telephone extension number, home telephone number, or default universe.
For historical reasons, this field is sometimes called the \s-2GCOS\s0 (General
Electric's timesharing system) field.
.TP 10
.I directory
The directory within which the user is placed when they log in.
This is known as the
.B home
directory.
.TP 10
.I shell
program to use as Shell when the user logs in.
.LP
The user's
.I name
field can contain
\f3&\f1,
meaning insert the
.I login
name.
.LP
The password file is an
.SM ASCII
file.  Each field within each user's entry
is separated from the next by a colon.  Each user is separated from the
next by a new-line.
If the
.I password
field is null, no password is demanded;
if the
.I shell
field is null,
.I /bin/sh
is used.
.LP
The
.I passwd
file can also have line beginning with a plus (+),
which means to incorporate entries from the yellow pages.
There are three styles of + entries:
.Ls B
.Li
By itself, + means to insert the entire contents
of the yellow pages password file at that point;
.Li
.I +name
means to insert the entry (if any) for
.I name
from the yellow pages at that point;
.Li
.I +@name
means to insert the entries for all members of the network group
.I name
at that point.
.Le
If a + entry has a non-null
\f2password\f1,
\f2directory\f1,
\f2name\f1,
or
.I shell
field,
they override what is contained in the yellow pages.
The numerical user ID and group ID fields cannot be overridden.
.SH EXAMPLE
.LP
Here is a sample
.I /etc/passwd
file:
.IP
.\" .ft L
.nf
root:q.mJzTnu8icF.:0:10:Bob:/:/bin/csh
tut:6k/7KCFRPNVXg:508:10:Bill Tuthill:/usr2/tut:/bin/csh
+john:
+@documentation:no-login:
+:::Guest
.fi
.LP
In this example, there are specific entries for users
.I root
and
.IR tut ,
in case the yellow pages are out of order.
The user
.I john
has his password entry in the yellow pages
incorporated without change;
anyone in the netgroup
.I documentation
has their password field disabled,
and anyone else is able to log in with their usual
\f2password\f1,
\f2shell\f1,
and
\f2directory\f1,
but with a
.I name
field of
.I Guest.
.LP
The password file resides in the
.I /etc 
directory.
Because the passwords are encrypted,
.I /etc/passwd
has general read permission and can be used
to map numerical user ID's to names, for example.
.LP
Appropriate precautions must be taken to lock the 
.I /etc/passwd
file against simultaneous changes if it is to be edited with a text editor;
.IR vipw (8)
does the necessary locking.
.SH FILES
/etc/passwd
.SH "SEE ALSO"
login(1),
passwd(1),
crypt(3),
getpwent(3),
group(5),
adduser(8),
vipw(8)
