.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
.\"
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.  This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: rcsfile.5 1.8 86/08/15 $
.TH RCSFILE 5 "\*(V)" "Purdue University"
.SH NAME
rcsfile \- format of RCS file
.SH DESCRIPTION
An RCS file is an ASCII file.
Its contents are described by the grammar below.
The text is free format,
i.e.,
spaces,
tabs,
and new lines have no significance except in strings.
Strings are enclosed by `@'.
If a string contains an `@',
it must be doubled.
.PP
The meta syntax uses the following conventions: `|'
(bar)
separates alternatives;
`{' and `}' enclose optional phrases;
`{' and `}*' enclose phrases that may be repeated zero or more times;
`{' and '}+' enclose phrases that must appear at least once
and may be repeated;
`<' and `>' enclose nonterminals.
.PP
.ta 1.5i 2.0i 3i
.fc ~
.nf


<rcstext>  ~~::=~~<admin> {<delta>}* <desc> {<deltatext>}*

<admin>    ~~::=~~\f3head\f1     ~~{<num>};
           ~~   ~~\f3access\f1   ~~{<id>}*;
           ~~   ~~\f3symbols\f1  ~~{<id> : <num>}*;
           ~~   ~~\f3locks\f1    ~~{<id> : <num>}*;
           ~~   ~~\f3comment\f1  ~~{<string>};

<delta>    ~~::=~~<num>
           ~~   ~~\f3date\f1     ~~<num>;
           ~~   ~~\f3author\f1   ~~<id>;
           ~~   ~~\f3state\f1    ~~{<id>};
           ~~   ~~\f3branches\f1 ~~{<num>}*;
           ~~   ~~\f3next\f1     ~~{<num>};

<desc>     ~~::=~~\f3desc\f1     ~~<string>

<deltatext>~~::=~~<num>
           ~~   ~~\f3log\f1      ~~<string>
           ~~   ~~\f3text\f1     ~~<string>


<num>      ~~::=~~{<digit>{.}}+

<digit>    ~~::=~~0 | 1 | ... | 9

<id>       ~~::=~~<letter>{<idchar>}*

<letter>   ~~::=~~A | B | ... | Z | a | b | ... | z

<idchar>   ~~::=~~Any printing ASCII character except space,
           ~~   ~~tab, carriage return, new line, and <special>.

<special>  ~~::=~~; | : | , | @

<string>   ~~::=~~@{any ASCII character, with `@' doubled}*@

.fi
.PP
Identifiers are case sensitive.
Keywords are in lower case only.
The sets of keywords and identifiers may overlap.
.PP
The <delta> nodes form a tree.
All nodes whose numbers consist of a single pair
(e.g.,
2.3,
2.1,
1.3,
etc.)
are on the "trunk",
and are linked through the "next" field in order of decreasing numbers.
The "head" field in the <admin> node points to the head of that sequence
(i.e.,
contains the highest pair).
.PP
All <delta> nodes whose numbers consist of 2n fields (n\(>=2)
(e.g.,
3.1.1.1,
2.1.2.2,
etc.)
are linked as follows.
All nodes whose first (2n)-1 number fields are identical
are linked through the "next" field in order of increasing numbers.
For each such sequence,
the <delta> node whose number is identical
to the first 2(n-1) number fields of the deltas on that sequence
is called the branchpoint.
The "branches" field of a node contains a list
of the numbers of the first nodes of all sequences
for which it is a branchpoint.
This list is ordered in increasing numbers.
.PP
Example:
.nf
.vs 12pts
.cs 1 28
                                    Head
                                      |
                                      |
                                      v
                                  ---------
            / \\          / \\      |       |      / \\           / \\
           /   \\        /   \\     |  2.1  |     /   \\         /   \\
          /     \\      /     \\    |       |    /     \\      /       \\
         /1.2.1.3\\    /1.3.1.1\\   |       |   /1.2.2.2\\   /1.2.2.1.1.1\\
         ---------    ---------   ---------   ---------   -------------
             ^            ^           |           ^             ^
             |            |           |           |             |
             |            |           v           |             |
            / \\           |       ---------      / \\            |
           /   \\          |       \\  1.3  /     /   \\           |
          /     \\         ---------\\     /     /     \\-----------
         /1.2.1.1\\                  \\   /     /1.2.2.1\\
         ---------                   \\ /      ---------
             ^                        |           ^
             |                        |           |
             |                        v           |
             |                    ---------       |
             |                    \\  1.2  /       |
             ----------------------\\     /---------
                                    \\   /
                                     \\ /
                                      |
                                      |
                                      v
                                  ---------
                                  \\  1.1  /
                                   \\     /
                                    \\   /
                                     \\ /


.cs 1
.ce
Fig. 1: A revision tree
.fi
.PP
.SH IDENTIFICATION
.de VL
\\$2
..
Author: Walter F. Tichy,
Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN, 47907.
.sp 0
Revision Number:
.VL $\&Revision: 3.0 $
; Release Date:
.VL $\&Date: 82/11/18 16:36:39 $
\&.
.sp 0
Copyright \(co 1982 by Walter F. Tichy.
.SH SEE ALSO
ci (1),
co (1),
ident (1),
rcs (1),
rcsdiff (1),
rcsintro (1),
rcsmerge (1),
rlog (1).
