.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: rmtab.5 1.4 87/06/18 $
.\" @(#)rmtab.5 1.1 85/12/28 SMI;
.TH RMTAB 5 "\*(V)" "4BSD"
.SH NAME
rmtab \- remotely mounted file system table
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/rmtab
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "rmtab file"  ""  "\fLrmtab\fP \(em remote mounted file system table"
.I Rmtab
contains a record of all clients
that have done remote mounts of file systems from this machine.
Whenever a remote
.I mount
is done, an entry is made in the
.I rmtab
file of the machine serving up that file system.
.I Umount
removes remotely mounted file system entries.
.I "Umount \-a"
broadcasts to all servers, and informs them that they should remove
all entries from
.I rmtab
created by the sender of the broadcast message.
The table is a series of lines of the form
.Ps
\f2hostname\f1:\f2directory\f1
.Pe
This table is used only to preserve information between crashes,
and is read only by
.IR mountd (8)
when it starts up.
.I Mountd
keeps an in-core table,
which it uses to handle requests from programs like
.IR showmount (1)
and
.IR shutdown (8).
.SH FILES
/etc/rmtab
.SH "SEE ALSO"
mount(8),
mountd(8),
showmount(8),
shutdown(8),
umount(8)
.SH BUGS
Although the
.I rmtab
table is close to the truth,
it is not always 100% accurate.
