.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: servers.5 1.6 87/07/02 $
.\" @(#)servers.5 1.1 85/12/28 SMI;
.TH SERVERS 5 "\*(V)" "4BSD"
.SH NAME
servers \- inet server data base
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/servers
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "servers file"  ""  "\fLservers\fP \(em inet server database"
.IX  "inet server database"  ""  "inet server database \(em \fLservers\fP"
The
.I servers
file contains the list of servers that
.IR inetd (8)
operates.
For each server a single line should be present
with the following information:
.Ps
.I "name protocol location"
.Pe
If the server is
.B rpc
based,
the
.I name
field should be
.BR rpc .
In this case, two additional fields are defined.
These two fields are the rpc program number,
and either a version number or a range of version numbers.
.PP
Fields are separated by any number of blanks or tab characters.
A
.B #
indicates the beginning of a comment;
characters up to the end of the line are not interpreted
by routines that search the file.
.PP
The name of the server should be the official service
name as contained in 
.IR services (5).
The protocol entry is either
.B udp
or
.BR tcp .
The server location is the full path name of the server program.
.SH EXAMPLE
.LP
Example servers file:
.if t .ta \w'comsat\0\0\0'u +\w'udp\0\0'u +\w'/usr/etc/rpc.rusersd\0\0\0\0\0\0\0'u +\w'1000013\0\0\0'u
.if n .ta \w'comsat\0\0'u +\w'udp\0\0'u +\w'/usr/etc/rpc.mountd\0\0'u +\w'1000013\0\0'u
.Ps
telnet	tcp	/usr/etc/in.telnetd
shell	tcp	/etc/in.rshd
login	tcp	/etc/in.rlogind
exec	tcp	/usr/etc/in.rexecd
syslog	udp	/usr/etc/in.syslog
comsat	udp	/usr/etc/in.comsat
talk	udp	/usr/etc/in.talkd
time	tcp	/usr/etc/in.timed
rpc	udp	/usr/etc/rpc.rstatd	1000013	1-2
rpc	udp	/usr/etc/rpc.rusersd	100002	1
rpc	udp	/usr/etc/rpc.rwalld	100008	1
rpc	udp	/usr/etc/rpc.mountd	100005	1
.Pe
.SH FILES
/etc/servers
.SH "SEE ALSO"
services(5),
inetd(8)
.SH BUGS
Because of a limitation on the number of open files,
this file must contain fewer than 
.B NOFILE
minus 3 lines (refer to <sys/param.h>).
.\"	Don't forget to check if NOFILE becomes getdtablemax(2) for 3.1.
