.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: services.5 1.4 86/05/13 $
.TH SERVICES 5 "\*(V)" "4BSD"
.SH NAME
services \- service name data base
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I services
file contains information regarding
the known services available in the DARPA Internet.
For each service a single line should be present
with the following information:
.HP 10
official service name
.br
.ns
.HP 10
port number
.br
.ns
.HP 10
protocol name
.br
.ns
.HP 10
aliases
.PP
Items are separated by any number of blanks and/or
tab characters.  The port number and protocol name
are considered a single 
.IR item ;
a ``/'' is used to
separate the port and protocol (e.g. ``512/tcp'').
A ``#'' indicates the beginning of
a comment; characters up to the end of the line are
not interpreted by routines which search the file.
.PP
Service names may contain any printable
character other than a field delimiter, newline,
or comment character.
.SH FILES
/etc/services
.SH "SEE ALSO"
getservent(3N)
.SH BUGS
A name server should be used instead of a static file.
A binary indexed file format should be available for fast access.
