.\" $Copyright: $
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
.\"
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.  This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: ttys.5 1.11 1991/06/12 21:20:49 $
.TH TTYS 5 "\*(V)" "7th Edition"
.SH NAME
ttys \- terminal initialization data
.SH SYNOPSIS
/etc/ttys
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I /etc/ttys
file is read by the
.I init
program
and specifies which terminal special files
are to have a process created
so that people can log in.
There is one line in the
.I /etc/ttys
file for each terminal line.
.PP
The first character of a line in the
.I /etc/ttys
file is either `0' or '1'.
If the first character on the line is a `0',
.I init
ignores that line.
If the first character on the line is a `1',
.I init
creates a login process for that line.
.PP
The second character of a line in the
.I /etc/ttys
file is passed to
.IR getty (8).
.I Getty
uses this character to select an entry from the
.I /etc/gettytab
file
(see
.IR gettytab (5)).
The entries in
.I /etc/gettytab
describe characteristics,
including baud rate,
of various terminal classes.
For normal lines,
the second character is `0',
although other characters can be used
(as for example,
with hard-wired terminals where speed recognition is unnecessary
or which have special characteristics).
.PP
The remainder of a line in the
.I /etc/ttys
file is the terminal's entry in the device directory,
.I /dev.
.PP 
Note that editing
.I /etc/ttys
while the system is up and running in multiuser mode
is not recommended.
.SH FILES
/etc/ttys
.br
/etc/gettytab
.SH "SEE ALSO"
getty(8),
gettytab(5),
init(8),
login(1)
.br
.I "DYNIX System Administration Guide"
