.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: acct.2 1.6 86/05/13 $
.TH ACCT 2 "\*(V)" "4BSD"
.SH NAME
acct \- turn accounting on or off
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft 3
acct(file)
char *file;
.ft 1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The system is prepared to write a record
in an accounting
.I file
for each process as it terminates.
This
call, with a null-terminated string naming an existing file
as argument, turns on accounting;
records for each terminating process are appended to
.IR file .
An argument of 0 causes accounting to be turned off.
.PP
The accounting file format is given in
.IR acct (5).
.PP
This call is permitted only to the super-user.
.SH NOTES
Accounting is automatically disabled when the file system the
accounting file resides on runs out of space; it is enabled when
space once again becomes available.
.SH "RETURN VALUE
On error \-1 is returned.
The file must exist and the call may be exercised only by the super-user.
It is erroneous to try to turn on accounting when it is already on.
.SH ERRORS
.I Acct
will fail if one of the following is true:
.TP 15
[EPERM]
The caller is not the super-user.
.TP 15
[EPERM]
The pathname contains a character with the high-order bit set.
.TP 15
[ENOTDIR]
A component of the path prefix is not a directory.
.TP 15
[ENOENT]
The named file does not exist.
.TP 15
[EROFS]
The named file resides on a read-only file system.
.TP 15
[EFAULT]
.I File
points outside the process's allocated address space.
.TP 15
[ELOOP]
Too many symbolic links were encountered in translating the pathname.
.TP 15
[EACCES]
The file is not a plain file.
.TP 15
[ENOENT]
The pathname is too long.
.TP 15
[EIO]
An I/O error occurred while reading from or writing to the file system.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
acct(5), sa(8)
.SH BUGS
No accounting is produced for programs running
when a crash occurs.
In particular nonterminating programs are never
accounted for.
