.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: bind.2 1.7 86/05/13 $
.TH BIND 2 "\*(V)" "4BSD"
.SH NAME
bind \- bind a name to a socket
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft 3
#include <sys/types.h>
#include <sys/socket.h>
.PP
.ft 3
bind(s, name, namelen)
int s;
struct sockaddr *name;
int namelen;
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Bind
assigns a name to an unnamed socket.
When a socket is created 
with
.IR socket (2)
it exists in a name space (address family)
but has no name assigned.
.I Bind
requests the
.IR name ,
be assigned to the socket.
.SH NOTES
Binding a name in the UNIX domain creates a socket in the file
system which must be deleted by the caller when it is no longer
needed (using
.IR unlink (2)).
The file created
is a side-effect of the current implementation,
and will not be created in future versions
of the UNIX ipc domain.
.PP
The rules used in name binding vary between communication domains.
Consult the manual entries in section 4 for detailed information.
.SH "RETURN VALUE
If the bind is successful, a 0 value is returned.
A return value of \-1 indicates an error, which is
further specified in the global \f2errno\fP.
.SH ERRORS
The \f2bind\fP call will fail if:
.TP 20
[EBADF]
\f2S\fP is not a valid descriptor.
.TP 20
[ENOTSOCK]
\f2S\fP is not a socket.
.TP 20
[EADDRNOTAVAIL]
The specified address is not available from the local machine.
.TP 20
[EADDRINUSE]
The specified address is already in use.
.TP 20
[EINVAL]
The socket is already bound to an address.
.TP 20
[EACCES]
The requested address is protected, and the current user
has inadequate permission to access it.
.TP 20
[EFAULT]
The \f2name\fP parameter is not in a valid part of the user
address space.
.SH SEE ALSO
connect(2), listen(2), socket(2), getsockname(2)
