.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: chdir.2 1.7 86/05/13 $
.TH CHDIR 2 "\*(V)" "4BSD"
.SH NAME
chdir \- change current working directory
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft 3
chdir(path)
char *path;
.ft 1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Path
is the pathname of a directory.
.I Chdir
causes this directory
to become the current working directory,
the starting point for path names not beginning with ``/''.
.PP
In order for a directory to become the current directory,
a process must have execute (search) access to the directory.
.SH "RETURN VALUE
Upon successful completion, a value of 0 is returned.
Otherwise, a value of \-1 is returned and \f2errno\fP is set to indicate
the error.
.SH ERRORS
.I Chdir
will fail and the current working directory will be unchanged if
one or more of the following are true:
.TP 15
[ENOTDIR]
A component of the pathname is not a directory.
.TP 15
[ENOENT]
The named directory does not exist.
.TP 15
[ENOENT]
The argument path name was too long.
.TP 15
[EPERM]
The argument contains a byte with the high-order bit set.
.TP 15
[EACCES]
Search permission is denied for any component of
the path name.
.TP 15
[EFAULT]
.I Path
points outside the process's allocated address space.
.TP 15
[ELOOP]
Too many symbolic links were encountered in translating
the pathname.
.TP 15
[EIO]
An I/O error occurred while reading from or writing to the file system.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
chroot(2)
