.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: csymlink.2 1.6 87/02/19 $
.TH CSYMLINK 2 "\*(V)" "DYNIX"
.SH NAME
csymlink \- make conditional symbolic link to a file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft 3
csymlink(ucb_target, att_target, linkname)
char *ucb_target, *att_target, *linkname;
.fi
.ft 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
A conditional symbolic link
.I linkname
is created to
.I ucb_target
and
.IR att_target .
.RI ( Linkname
is the name of the file created;
the target strings are used to create the conditional symbolic link.)
Any of the names may be an arbitrary path name; the files need not
be on the same file system.
.PP
When a conditional symbolic link is encountered during pathname parsing,
the link is treated as an ordinary symbolic link.
However, the value of the link depends on the process's selected universe
(U_UCB or U_ATT).
If the universe is U_UCB,
the value of the symbolic link is
.IR ucb_target .
If the universe is U_ATT,
the value of the symbolic link is
.IR att_target .
.SH "RETURN VALUE
Upon successful completion, a zero value is returned.
If an error occurs, the error code is stored in
.I errno
and a \-1 value is returned.
.SH "ERRORS
The conditional symbolic link is made unless one or more of the
following are true:
.TP 15
[EPERM]
Any of the arguments contain
a character with the high-order bit set.
.TP 15
[ENOENT]
One of the pathnames specified was too long.
.TP 15
[ENOTDIR]
A component of the
.I linkname
prefix is not a directory.
.TP 15
[EEXIST]
.I Linkname
already exists.
.TP 15
[EACCES]
A component of the
.I linkname
path prefix denies search permission.
.TP 15
[EROFS]
The file
.I linkname
would reside on a read-only file system.
.TP 15
[EFAULT]
Any of the parameters
point outside the process's allocated address space.
.TP 15
[ELOOP]
Too may symbolic links were encountered in translating the pathname.
.TP 15
[ENOSPC]
The directory in which the entry for the new symbolic link is being placed
cannot be extended because there is no space left on the file system containing
the directory.
.TP 15
[ENOSPC]
The new symbolic link cannot be created because there is no space left
on the file system which will contain the link.
.TP 15
[ENOSPC]
There are no free inodes on the file system on which the
symbolic link is being created.
.TP 15
[EIO]
An I/O error occurred while reading from or writing to the file system.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
ln(1), universe(1),
readclink(2), readlink(2), symlink(2), universe(2), unlink(2)
