.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: getdomainname.2 1.5 87/05/26 $
.\" @(#)getdomainname.2 1.1 85/12/28 SMI
.TH GETDOMAINNAME 2 "\*(V)" "4BSD"
.SH NAME
getdomainname, setdomainname \- get/set name of current domain
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\f3getdomainname(name, namelen)
char *name;
int namelen;
.sp
setdomainname(name, namelen)
char *name;
int namelen;\f1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.\".IX  getdomainname  ""  \f2getdomainname\fP
.\".IX  "processes and protection"  getdomainname  ""  \f2getdomainname\fP
.\".IX  domain  "get name of current"
.\".IX  "get current domain name"
.\".IX  setdomainname  ""  \f2setdomainname\fP
.\".IX  "processes and protection"  setdomainname  ""  \f2setdomainname\fP
.\".IX  domain  "set name of current"
.\".IX  "set current domain name"
.I Getdomainname
returns the name of the domain for the current processor, as previously
set by
.IR setdomainname .
The parameter
.I namelen
specifies the size of the
.I name
array.  The returned name is null-terminated unless insufficient space
is provided.
.LP
.I Setdomainname
sets the domain of the host machine to be
.IR name ,
which has length
.IR namelen .
This call is restricted to the super-user and is normally used only
when the system is bootstrapped.
.LP
The purpose of domains is to enable two distinct networks that may have
host names in common to merge.  Each network would be distinguished by
having a different domain name.  At the current time, only the yellow
pages service makes use of domains.
.SH "RETURN VALUE
If the call succeeds a value of 0 is returned.  If the call fails, then
a value of \-1 is returned and an error code is placed in the global
location \fIerrno\fP.
.SH "ERRORS
The following errors may be returned by these calls:
.TP 15
[EFAULT]
The \fIname\fP parameter gave an invalid address.
.TP 15
[EPERM]
The caller was not the super-user.  This error only applies to 
.IR setdomainname .
.SH BUGS
Domain names are limited to 255 characters.
