.\" $Copyright: $
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: getgroups.2 1.9 1991/08/06 22:37:15 $
.TH GETGROUPS 2 "\*(V)" "4BSD"  \" from craig@BBN-UNIX.ARPA
.SH NAME
getgroups \- get group access list
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft 3
#include <sys/param.h>
.PP
.ft 3
ngrps = getgroups(gsize, gidset)
int ngrps, gsize, *gidset;
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Getgroups
gets the current group access list of the user process
and stores it in the array 
.IR gidset .
The parameter
.I gsize
indicates the number of entries which may be placed in 
.I gidset .
The return value is the number of entries in
.I gidset
that were filled.
No more than NGROUPS, as defined in
.RI < sys/param.h >,
will ever
be returned.
.SH "RETURN VALUE
A value of \-1 indicates that an error occurred, and the error
code is stored in the global variable \f2errno\fP\|.
.SH "ERRORS
The possible errors for \f2getgroups\fP are:
.TP 15
[EFAULT]
The argument \f2gidset\fP is an invalid address.
.TP 15
[EINVAL]
The size of \f2gidset\fP as specified by \f2gsize\fP is too small to
accommodate the entire group access list.
.SH "SEE ALSO
setgroups(2), initgroups(3)


