.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: gethostname.2 1.8 86/05/13 $
.TH GETHOSTNAME 2 "\*(V)" "4BSD"
.SH NAME
gethostname, sethostname \- get/set name of current host
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft 3
gethostname(name, namelen)
char *name;
int namelen;
.PP
.ft 3
sethostname(name, namelen)
char *name;
int namelen;
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Gethostname
returns the standard host name for the current processor, as
previously set by
.IR sethostname . 
The parameter
.I namelen
specifies the size of the 
.I name
array.  The returned name is null-terminated unless insufficient
space is provided.
.PP
.I Sethostname
sets the name of the host machine to be
.IR name ,
which has length
.IR namelen .
This call is restricted to the super-user and
is normally used only when the system is bootstrapped.
.SH "RETURN VALUE
If the call succeeds a value of 0 is returned.  If the call
fails, then a value of \-1 is returned and an error code is
placed int the global location \f2errno\fP.
.SH "ERRORS
.I Gethostname
will fail if:
.TP 15
[EFAULT]
The \f2name\fP or \f2namelen\fP parameter gave an
invalid address.
.PP
.I Sethostname
will fail if:
.TP 15
[EFAULT]
The \f2name\fP or \f2namelen\fP parameter gave an
.TP 15
[EPERM]
The caller was not the super-user.
.SH SEE ALSO
gethostid(2)
.SH BUGS
Host names are limited to 31 characters.
