.\" $Copyright: $
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: getsockname.2 1.8 1991/04/15 22:50:25 $
.TH GETSOCKNAME 2 "\*(V)" "4BSD"
.SH NAME
getsockname \- get socket name
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft 3
#include <sys/types.h>
#include <sys/socket.h>
.sp
getsockname(s, name, namelen)
int s;
struct sockaddr *name;
int *namelen;
.fi
.ft 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Getsockname
returns the current 
.I name
for the specified socket.  The
.I namelen
parameter should be initialized to indicate
the amount of space pointed to by
.IR name .
On return it contains the actual size of the name
returned (in bytes).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
A 0 is returned if the call succeeds, \-1 if it fails.
.SH ERRORS
The call succeeds unless:
.TP 15
[EBADF]
The argument \f2s\fP is not a valid descriptor.
.TP 15
[ENOTSOCK]
The argument \f2s\fP is a file, not a socket.
.TP 15
[ENOBUFS]
Insufficient resources were available in the system
to perform the operation.
.TP 15
[EFAULT]
The 
.I name
parameter or the
.I namelen
parameter point to memory not in a valid part of the
process address space.
.TP 15
[EINVAL]
The 
.I namelen
parameter specifies a buffer size which is negative or is larger than
the largest buffer accepted by the system call.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
bind(2), socket(2)
