.\" $Copyright: $
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: gettimeofday.2 1.10 1991/06/12 01:47:16 $
.TH GETTIMEOFDAY 2 "\*(V)" "4BSD"
.SH NAME
gettimeofday, settimeofday \- get/set date and time
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft 3
#include <sys/time.h>
.PP
.ft 3
gettimeofday(tp, tzp)
struct timeval *tp;
struct timezone *tzp;
.PP
.ft 3
settimeofday(tp, tzp)
struct timeval *tp;
struct timezone *tzp;
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The system's notion of the current Greenwich time and
the current time zone
is obtained with the
.I gettimeofday
call, and set with the
.I settimeofday
call.
The time is expressed
in seconds and microseconds since midnight (0 hour), January 1, 1970.
The resolution of the system clock is hardware dependent,
and the time may be updated continuously or in ``ticks.''
.PP
The structures pointed to by
.I tp
and
.I tzp
are defined in 
.I <sys/time.h>
as:
.PP
.nf
.RS
.DT
struct timeval {
	long	tv_sec;		/* seconds since Jan. 1, 1970 */
	long	tv_usec;		/* and microseconds */
};
.sp 1
struct timezone {
	int	tz_minuteswest;	/* of Greenwich */
	int	tz_dsttime;	/* type of dst correction to apply */
};
.RE
.fi
.PP
The 
.I timezone
structure indicates the local time zone
(measured in minutes of time westward from Greenwich),
and a flag that, if nonzero, indicates that
Daylight Saving time applies locally during
the appropriate part of the year.
.PP
If
.I tzp
is NULL, the time zone information will not be returned or set.
.PP
Only the super-user may set the time of day or time zone.
.SH RETURN
A 0 return value indicates that the call succeeded.
A \-1 return value indicates an error occurred, and in this
case an error code is stored into the global variable \f2errno\fP.
.SH "ERRORS
The following error codes may be set in \f2errno\fP:
.TP 15
[EFAULT]
An argument address referenced invalid memory.
.TP 15
[EPERM]
A user other than the super-user attempted to set the time.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
date(1), adjtime(2), ctime(3)
