.\" $Copyright: $
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: ioctl.2 1.11 1991/08/06 18:30:33 $
.TH IOCTL 2 "\*(V)" "4BSD"
.SH NAME
ioctl \- control device
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft 3
#include <sys/ioctl.h>
.PP
.ft 3
ioctl(d, request, argp)
int d, request;
char *argp;
.fi
.ft 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Ioctl
performs a variety of functions
on open descriptors.  In particular, many operating
characteristics of character special files (e.g. terminals)
may be controlled with
.I ioctl
requests.
The writeups of various devices in section 4 discuss how
.I ioctl
applies to them.
.PP
An  ioctl
.I request
has encoded in it whether the argument is an \*(lqin\*(rq parameter
or \*(lqout\*(rq parameter, and the size of the argument \f2argp\fP in bytes.
Macros and defines used in specifying an ioctl
.I request
are located in the file
.IR <sys/ioctl.h> .
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
If an error has occurred, a value of \-1 is returned and
.I errno
is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.I Ioctl
will fail if one or more of the following are true:
.TP 15
[EBADF]
\f2D\fP is not a valid descriptor.
.TP 15
[ENODEV]
\f2D\fP does not have a defined ioctl interface
in \f2devices.balance\fP.
.TP 15
[ENOTTY]
\f2D\fP is not associated with a character
special device.
.TP 15
[ENOTTY]
The specified request does not apply to the kind
of object which the descriptor \f2d\fP references.
.TP 15
[EINVAL]
\f2Request\fP or \f2argp\fP is not valid.
.TP 15
[EFAULT]
The memory pointed to by
.I argp
lies outside the valid address space for the process.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
mt(1),
execve(2),
fcntl(2),
intro(4n),
mtio(4),
tty(4)
