.\" $Copyright: $
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
.\"
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: killpg.2 1.8 1991/05/07 15:45:26 $
.TH KILLPG 2 "\*(V)" "4BSD"
.SH NAME
killpg \- send signal to a process group
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft 3
killpg(pgrp, sig)
.br
int pgrp, sig;
.ft 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Killpg
sends the signal
.I sig
to the process group
.IR pgrp .
See
.IR sigvec (2)
for a list of signals.
.PP
The sending process and members of the process group must
have the same effective user ID, otherwise
this call is restricted to the super-user.
As a single special case the continue signal SIGCONT may be sent
to any process which is a descendant of the current process.
.PP
If the process number is \-1, and the user is the super-user,
the signal is broadcast universally
except to system processes
and the process sending the signal.
.SH "RETURN VALUE
Upon successful completion, a value of 0 is returned.  Otherwise,
a value of \-1 is returned and the global variable \f2errno\fP
is set to indicate the error.
.SH "ERRORS
\f2Killpg\fP will fail and no signal will be sent if any of the
following occur:
.TP 15
[EINVAL]
\f2Sig\fP is not a valid signal number.
.TP 15
[ESRCH]
No process can be found corresponding to that specified by \f2pgrp\fP.
.TP 15
[EPERM]
The sending process is not the super-user and one or more
of the target processes has an effective user ID different from that
of the sending process.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
kill(2), getpgrp(2), sigvec(2)
