.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: listen.2 1.6 86/05/13 $
.TH LISTEN 2 "\*(V)" "4BSD"
.SH NAME
listen \- listen for connections on a socket
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft 3
listen(s, backlog)
int s, backlog;
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
To accept connections, a socket
is first created with
.IR socket (2),
a backlog for incoming connections is specified with
.IR listen (2)
and then the connections are
accepted with
.IR accept (2).
The
.I listen
call applies only to sockets of type
SOCK_STREAM
or
SOCK_PKTSTREAM.
.PP
The
.I backlog
parameter defines the maximum length the queue of
pending connections may grow to.
If a connection
request arrives with the queue full the client will
receive an error with an indication of ECONNREFUSED.
.SH "RETURN VALUE
A 0 return value indicates success; \-1 indicates an error.
.SH "ERRORS
The call fails if:
.TP 20
[EBADF]
The argument \f2s\fP is not a valid descriptor.
.TP 20
[ENOTSOCK]
The argument \f2s\fP is not a socket.
.TP 20
[EOPNOTSUPP]
The socket is not of a type that supports the operation \f2listen\fP.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
accept(2), connect(2), socket(2)
.SH BUGS
The
.I backlog
is currently limited (silently) to 5.
