.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: mkdir.2 1.7 86/05/13 $
.TH MKDIR 2 "\*(V)" "4BSD"
.SH NAME
mkdir \- make a directory file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft 3
mkdir(path, mode)
char *path;
int mode;
.fi
.ft 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Mkdir
creates a new directory file with name
.IR path .
The mode of the new file
is initialized from
.IR mode .
(The protection part of the mode
is modified by the process's mode mask; see
.IR umask (2)).
.PP
The directory's owner ID is set to the process's effective user ID.
The directory's group ID is set to that of the parent directory in
which it is created.
.PP
The low-order 9 bits of mode are modified by the process's
file mode creation mask: all bits set in the process's file mode
creation mask are cleared.  See
.IR umask (2).
.SH "RETURN VALUE
A 0 return value indicates success.  A \-1 return value
indicates an error, and an error code is stored in
.I errno.
.SH "ERRORS
.I Mkdir
will fail and no directory will be created if:
.TP 15
[EPERM]
The process's effective user ID is not super-user.
.TP 15
[EPERM]
The \f2path\fP argument contains a byte with the high-order bit set.
.TP 15
[ENOTDIR]
A component of the path prefix is not a directory.
.TP 15
[ENOENT]
A component of the path prefix does not exist.
.TP 15
[EROFS]
The named file resides on a read-only file system.
.TP 15
[EEXIST]
The named file exists.
.TP 15
[EFAULT]
.I Path
points outside the process's allocated address space.
.TP 15
[ELOOP]
Too many symbolic links were encountered in translating the pathname.
.TP 15
[EIO]
An I/O error occurred while reading from or writing to the file system.
.TP 15
[ENOENT]
The path name is too long.
.TP 15
[EACCES]
A component of the path prefix denies search permission.
.TP 15
[ENOSPC]
The directory in which the entry for the new file is being placed
cannot be extended because there is no space left on the file system
containing the directory.
.TP 15
[ENOSPC]
The new directory cannot be created because there is no space left
on the file system which will contain the directory.
.TP 15
[ENOSPC]
There are no free inodes on the file system on which the directory is being
created.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
chmod(2), stat(2), umask(2)
