.\" $Copyright: $
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: mount.2 1.18 1991/08/06 22:37:30 $
.\" @(#)mount.2 1.1 85/12/28 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.TH MOUNT 2 "\*(V)" "4BSD"
.SH NAME
mount \- mount file system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\f3#include <sys/mount.h>
.sp
mount(type, dir, flags, data)
int type;
char *dir;
int flags;
caddr_t data;\fP
.fi
.\".IX  mount  ""  \f2mount\fP
.\".IX  "file system"  mount  ""  \f2mount\fP
.\".IX  "system operation support"  mount  ""  \f2mount\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Mount
attaches a file system to a directory.
After a successful return, references to directory
.I dir
refer to the root directory on the newly mounted file system.
.I Dir
is a pointer to a null-terminated string
containing a path name.
.I Dir
must exist already, and must be a directory.  Its old contents
are inaccessible while the file system is mounted.
.LP
The
.I flags
argument determines whether the file system can be written on, and if
set-uid execution is allowed.  Physically
write-protected and magnetic tape file systems must be mounted
read-only or errors will occur when access times are updated, whether
or not any explicit write is attempted.
.LP
.I Type
indicates the type of the filesystem.  It must be one of the
types defined in 
.IR mount.h .
.I Data
is a pointer to a structure which contains the type specific
arguments to mount.
The following is a list of the filesystem types supported
and the type specific arguments to each:
.sp
.B MOUNT_UFS
.if t .ta \w'struct\0\0\0'u +\w'struct sockaddr_in\0\0\0\0\0\0'u +\w'retrans;\0\0\0\0'u
.if n .ta \w'struct\0'u +\w'struct sockaddr_in\0\0\0'u +\w'retrans;\0\0'u
.Ps
struct ufs_args {
	char *fspec;	/* Block special file to mount */
};
.Pe
.B MOUNT_NFS
.Ps
#include <nfs/nfs.h>
#include <netinet/in.h>
struct nfs_args {
	struct sockaddr_in	*addr;	/* file server address */
	fhandle_t	*fh;	/* File handle to be mounted */
	int	flags;	/* flags */
	int	wsize;	/* write size in bytes */
	int	rsize;	/* read size in bytes */
	int	timeo;	/* initial timeout in .1 secs */
	int	retrans;	/* times to retry send */
};
.Pe
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.I Mount
returns 0 if the action occurred;
otherwise,
it returns an error.
.SH ERRORS
.I Mount
fails when one of the following occurs:
.TP 15
[EACCES]
Search permission is denied for a component of the path prefix of
.I fspec
or
.IR dir .
.TP 15
[EBUSY]
.I Dir
is not a directory, or another process currently
holds a reference to it.
.TP 15
[EBUSY]
No space remains in the mount table, or the device is already mounted
in the mount table.
.TP 15
[EFAULT]
Either
.IR addr ,
.IR data ,
.IR dir ,
.IR fh ,
or
.I fspec
points outside the process's allocated address space.
.TP 15
[EINVAL]
The super block for the file system had a bad magic
number or an out of range block size.
.TP 15
[EINVAL]
Either
.IR timeo ,
.IR rsize ,
or
.I wsize
is less than or equal to zero,
or
.I retrans
is less than zero.
.TP 15
[EIO]
An I/O error occurred while reading the super block
or cylinder group information.
.TP 15
[EIO]
An I/O error occurred while reading from or writing to the file system.
.TP 15
[ELOOP]
Too many symbolic links were encountered in
translating the pathname of
.I fspec
or
.IR dir .
.TP 15
[ENAMETOOLONG]
The pathname of
.I fspec
or
.I dir
was too long.
.TP 15
[ENODEV]
.I Type
is not a valid filesystem type.
.TP 15
[ENOENT]
Either
.I fspec
or
.I dir
does not exist.
.TP 15
[ENOSPC]
The filesystem is not marked as clean and 
.I flags
specifies that the filesystem is to be mounted as writable.
.TP 15
[ENOTBLK]
.I Fspec
is not a block device.
.TP 15
[ENOTDIR]
A component of the path prefix in
.I fspec
is not a directory.
.TP 15
[ENOTDIR]
.I Dir
is not a directory.
.TP 15
[ENXIO]
The major device number of 
.I fspec
is out of range (this indicates no device driver exists
for the associated hardware).
.TP 15
[ENXIO]
The attempt to open
.I fspec
failed.
.TP 15
[EPERM]
The caller is not the super-user.
.TP 15
[EPERM]
The pathname of either
.I fspec
or
.I dir
contains a character with the high-order bit set.
.TP 15
[EPFNOSUPPORT]
The protocol family specified by
.I addr->sin_family
is not AF_INET.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
unmount(2),
mount(8)
