.\" $Copyright: $
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: profil.2 1.5 1991/06/12 00:51:29 $
.TH PROFIL 2 "\*(V)" "4BSD"
.SH NAME
profil \- execution time profile
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B profil(buff, bufsiz, offset, scale)
.B char *buff;
.B int bufsiz, offset, scale;
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Buff
points to an area of core whose length (in bytes) is given by
.IR bufsiz .
After this call, the user's program counter (pc)
is examined each clock tick (10 milliseconds);
.I offset
is subtracted from it, and the result multiplied by
.IR scale .
If the resulting number corresponds to a word (16-bit value)
inside
.I buff,
that word is incremented.
.PP
The scale is interpreted as an unsigned,
fixed-point fraction with binary point at the
left: 0x10000 gives a 1-1 mapping of pc's to words
in
.I buff;
0x8000 maps each pair of instruction words
together.
0x2 maps all instructions onto the beginning of
.I buff
(producing a non-interrupting core clock).
.PP
Profiling is turned off by giving a
.I scale
of 0 or 1.
It is rendered
ineffective by giving a
.I bufsiz
of 0.
Profiling is turned off when an
.I execve
is executed, but remains on in child and parent both
after a
.IR fork .
Profiling is turned off if an update in
.I buff
would cause a memory fault.
.SH "RETURN VALUE
A 0, indicating success, is always returned.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
gprof(1), setitimer(2), monitor(3)
