.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: quotactl.2 1.3 88/08/15 $
.\" @(#)quotactl.2	1.2 87/02/10 NFSSRC
.\" @(#)quotactl.2 1.1 86/09/24 SMI; from UCB 15 April 1985
.\" .TH QUOTACTL 2 "20 August 1985"
.TH QUOTACTL 2  "\*(V)"
.SH NAME
quotactl \- manipulate disk quotas
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <ufs/quota.h>
.LP
.B quotactl(cmd, special, uid, addr)
.B int cmd;
.B char *special;
.B int uid;
.B caddr_t addr;
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The
.I quotactl
call manipulates disk quotas.  The
.I cmd
parameter indicates a command to be applied to the user ID
.IR uid .
.I Special
is a pointer to a null-terminated string containing the
pathname
of the block special device for the filesystem being manipulated.
The block special device must be mounted.
.I Addr
is the address of an optional, command-specific, data structure
that is copied in or out of the system.  The interpretation of
.I addr
is given with each command below.
.TP
Q_QUOTAON
Turn on quotas for a filesystem.
.I Addr
is a pointer to a null-terminated string containing the pathname
of the file containing the quotas for the filesystem.
The quota file must exist
and the commands for the quota system require that it be named
.I quotas .
This call is restricted to the super-user.
.TP
Q_QUOTAOFF
Turn off quotas for a filesystem.
This call is restricted to the super-user.
.TP
Q_GETQUOTA
Get disk quota limits and current usage for user
.IR uid .
.I Addr
is a pointer to a struct dqblk structure (defined in 
.RI < ufs/quota.h >).
Only the super-user may get the quotas of some other user.
.TP
Q_SETQUOTA
Set disk quota limits and current usage for user
.IR uid .
.I Addr
is a pointer to a struct dqblk structure (defined in 
.RI < ufs/quota.h >).
This call is restricted to the super-user.
.TP
Q_SETQLIM
Set disk quota limits for user
.IR uid .
.I Addr
is a pointer to a struct dqblk structure (defined in 
.RI < ufs/quota.h >).
This call is restricted to the super-user.
.TP
Q_SYNC
Update the on-disk copy of quota usages.
This call is restricted to the super-user.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, a value of 0 is returned.
Otherwise, a value of \-1 is returned and
.I errno
is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
A
.I quotactl
call will fail when one of the following occurs:
.TP 15
EINVAL
.I Cmd
is invalid.
.TP 15
EPERM
The call is privileged and the caller was not the super-user.
.TP 15
EINVAL
The 
.I special
parameter is not a mounted filesystem
or is a mounted filesystem without quotas enabled.
.TP 15
ENOTBLK
The
.I special
parameter is not a block device.
.TP 15
EFAULT
An invalid
.I addr
is supplied; the associated structure could not be copied in or out
of the kernel.
.TP 15
EINVAL
The
.I addr
parameter is being interpreted as the path of a quota file
that exists but is not a regular file or is not on the
filesystem pointed to by the
.I special
parameter.
.TP 15
EUSERS
The quota table is full.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
quotaon(8), quotacheck(8)
.SH BUGS
There should be some way to integrate this call with the resource
limit interface provided by
.IR setrlimit (2)
and
.IR getrlimit (2).
Incompatible with Melbourne quotas.
