.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: readclink.2 1.8 87/02/20 $
.TH READCLINK 2 "\*(V)" "DYNIX"
.SH NAME
readclink \- read value of a conditional symbolic link
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft 3
#include <sys/universe.h>

cc = readclink(path, buf, bufsiz, uflag)
int cc;
char *path, *buf;
int bufsiz;
int uflag;
.fi
.ft 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Readclink
places the contents of one of the components
of the conditional symbolic link
.I path
in the buffer
.I buf
which has size
.IR bufsiz . 
The contents of the link are not null terminated when returned.
The component returned depends on the value of
.IR uflag :
if
.I uflag
is U_UCB (U_ATT), the value of the link in the U_UCB (U_ATT) universe is
returned.
.SH "RETURN VALUE
The call returns the count of characters placed in the buffer
if it succeeds, or a \-1 if an error occurs, placing the error
code in the global variable
.IR errno .
.SH "ERRORS
.I Readclink
will fail if:
.TP 15
[EPERM]
The \f2path\fP argument contained a byte with the high-order bit set.
.TP 15
[ENOENT]
The pathname was too long.
.TP 15
[ENOTDIR]
A component of the path prefix is not a directory.
.TP 15
[ENOENT]
The named file does not exist.
.TP 15
[ENXIO]
The named file is not a conditional symbolic link.
.TP 15
[EACCES]
Search permission is denied on a component of the path prefix.
.TP 15
[EPERM]
The effective user ID does not match the owner of the file and
the effective user ID is not the super-user.
.TP 15
[EINVAL]
The named file is not a conditional symbolic link, or
.I uflag
is not U_UCB or U_ATT.
.TP 15
[EFAULT]
.I Buf
extends outside the process's allocated address space.
.TP 15
[ELOOP]
Too many symbolic links were encountered in translating the pathname.
.TP 15
[EIO]
An I/O error occurred while reading from or writing to the file system.
.SH SEE ALSO
csymlink(2), lstat(2), readlink(2), stat(2), symlink(2), universe(2)
