.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: reboot.2 1.5 86/05/13 $
.TH REBOOT 2 "\*(V)" "4BSD/DYNIX"
.SH NAME
reboot \- reboot system or halt processor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <sys/reboot.h>
.PP
.B reboot(howto)
.B int howto;
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Reboot
reboots the system, and is invoked automatically
in the event of unrecoverable system failures.
.I Howto
is a mask of options passed to the bootstrap program.
The system call interface permits only RB_HALT or RB_AUTOBOOT
to be passed to the reboot program.
When none of these options (e.g. RB_AUTOBOOT) is given, the system is rebooted
according to the SCEDMON parameters.
An automatic consistency check of the disks is then normally performed.
.PP
The bits of
.I howto
are:
.TP
RB_HALT
the processor is simply halted; no reboot takes place.
RB_HALT should be used with caution.
.TP
RB_ASKNAME
Interpreted by the bootstrap program itself, causing it to
inquire as to what file should be booted.
.TP
RB_SINGLE
Normally, the reboot procedure involves an automatic disk consistency
check and then multi-user operations.  RB_SINGLE prevents the consistency
check, rather simply booting the system with a single-user shell on
the console.
RB_SINGLE is interpreted by the
.IR init (8)
program in the newly booted system.
This switch is not available from the system call interface.
.PP
Only the super-user may
.I reboot
a machine.
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
If successful, this call never returns.  Otherwise, a \-1
is returned and an error is returned in the global variable
.IR errno .
.SH ERRORS
.TP 15
[EPERM]
The caller is not the super-user.
.TP
[EINVAL]
The currently executing processor is not the only online processor
in the system; see
.IR tmp_ctl (2).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
tmp_ctl(2), halt(8), init(8), reboot(8)
