.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: rmdir.2 1.7 86/05/13 $
.TH RMDIR 2 "\*(V)" "4BSD"
.SH NAME
rmdir \- remove a directory file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft 3
rmdir(path)
char *path;
.fi
.ft 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Rmdir
removes a directory file
whose name is given by
.I path.
The directory must not have any entries other
than \*(lq.\*(rq and \*(lq..\*(rq.
.SH "RETURN VALUE
A 0 is returned if the remove succeeds; otherwise a \-1 is
returned and an error code is stored in the global location \f2errno\fP\|.
.SH ERRORS
The named file is removed unless one or more of the
following are true:
.TP 15
[ENOTEMPTY]
The named directory contains files other than ``.'' and ``..'' in it.
.TP 15
[EPERM]
The pathname contains a character with the high-order bit set.
.TP 15
[ENOENT]
The pathname was too long.
.TP 15
[ENOTDIR]
A component of the path prefix is not a directory.
.TP 15
[ENOENT]
The named file does not exist.
.TP 15
[EACCES]
A component of the path prefix denies search permission.
.TP 15
[EACCES]
Write permission is denied on the directory containing the link
to be removed.
.TP 15
[EBUSY]
The directory to be removed is the mount point
for a mounted file system.
.TP 15
[EROFS]
The directory entry to be removed resides on a read-only file system.
.TP 15
[EFAULT]
.I Path
points outside the process's allocated address space.
.TP 15
[ELOOP]
Too many symbolic links were encountered in translating the pathname.
.TP 15
[EIO]
An I/O error occurred while reading from or writing to the file system.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
mkdir(2), unlink(2)
