.\" $Copyright: $
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: setpgrp.2 1.6 1991/07/09 20:04:03 $
.TH SETPGRP 2 "\*(V)" "4BSD"
.SH NAME
setpgrp \- set process group
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft 3
setpgrp(pid, pgrp)
.br
int pid, pgrp;
.ft 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Setpgrp
sets the process group of the specified process
.I pid
to the specified
.IR pgrp .
If
.I pid
is zero, then the call applies to the current process.
.PP
If the invoker is not the super-user, then the affected process
must have the same effective user-id as the invoker or be a descendant
of the invoking process.
.SH "RETURN VALUE
.I Setpgrp
returns 0 when the operation was successful.  If
the request failed, \-1 is returned and the global
variable
.I errno
indicates the reason.
.SH ERRORS
.I Setpgrp
will fail and the process group will not be altered if
one of the following occur:
.TP 15
[ESRCH]
The requested process does not exist.
.TP 15
[EPERM]
The effective user ID of the requested process is different
from that of the caller and the process is not a descendent
of the calling process.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
getpgrp(2)
