.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: sigstack.2 1.4 86/05/13 $
.TH SIGSTACK 2 "\*(V)" "4BSD"
.SH NAME
sigstack \- set and/or get signal stack context
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <signal.h>
.PP
.B struct sigstack {
.B	caddr_t	ss_sp;
.B	int	ss_onstack;
.B };
.PP
.B sigstack(ss, oss);
.B struct sigstack *ss, *oss;
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Sigstack
allows users to define an alternate stack on which signals
are to be processed.  If
.I ss
is non-zero,
it specifies a
.I "signal stack"
on which to deliver signals
and tells the system if the process is currently executing
on that stack.  When a signal's action indicates its handler
should execute on the signal stack (specified with a
.IR sigvec (2)
call), the system checks to see
if the process is currently executing on that stack.  If the
process is not currently executing on the signal stack,
the system arranges a switch to the signal stack for the
duration of the signal handler's execution. 
If
.I oss
is non-zero, the current signal stack state is returned.
.SH NOTES
Signal stacks are not ``grown'' automatically, as is
done for the normal stack.  If the stack overflows
unpredictable results may occur.
.SH "RETURN VALUE
Upon successful completion, a value of 0 is returned.
Otherwise, a value of \-1 is returned and 
.I errno
is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.I Sigstack
will fail and the signal stack context will remain unchanged
if one of the following occurs.
.TP 15
[EFAULT]
Either
.I ss
or
.I oss
points to memory which is not a valid part of the process
address space.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
sigvec(2), setjmp(3)
