.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: statfs.2 1.5 87/05/21 $
.\" @(#)statfs.2 1.1 85/12/28 SMI;
.TH STATFS 2 "\*(V)" "4BSD"
.SH NAME
statfs \- get file system statistics
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\f3#include <sys/vfs.h>
.sp
statfs(path, buf)
char *path;
struct statfs *buf;
.sp
fstatfs(fd, buf)
int fd;
struct statfs *buf;\f1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Statfs
returns information about a mounted file system.
.\".IX  "statfs"  ""  "\f2statfs\fP \(em obtain file system statistics"
.\".IX  "file system statistics statfs"  ""  "file system statistics \(em \f2statfs\fP"
.\".IX  "statistics of file system statfs"  ""  "statistics of file system \(em \f2statfs\fP"
.I Path
is the pathname of any file within the mounted filesystem.
.I Buf
is a pointer to a
.I statfs
structure defined as follows:
.if t .ta \w'struct\0\0\0'u +\w'fsid_t\0\0\0'u +\w'f_spare[7];\0\0\0\0'u
.if n .ta \w'struct\0'u +\w'fsid_t\0'u +\w'f_spare[7];\0'u
.Ps
typedef struct {
	long	val[2];
} fsid_t;
.sp
struct statfs {
	long	f_type; 	/* type of info, zero for now */
	long	f_bsize;	/* fundamental file system block size */
	long	f_blocks;	/* total blocks in file system */
	long	f_bfree;	/* free blocks */
	long	f_bavail;	/* free blocks available to non-superuser */
	long	f_files;	/* total file nodes in file system */
	long	f_ffree;	/* free file nodes in fs */
	fsid_t	f_fsid; 	/* file system id */
	long	f_spare[7];	/* spare for later */
};
.Pe
Fields that are undefined for a particular file system are set to \-1.
.I Fstatfs
returns the same information about an open file referenced by descriptor
.IR fd .
.\".IX  "fstatfs"  ""  "\f2fstatfs\fP \(em obtain file system statistics"
.\".IX  "file system statistics fstatfs"  ""  "file system statistics \(em \f2fstatfs\fP"
.\".IX  "statistics of file system fstatfs"  ""  "statistics of file system \(em \f2fstatfs\fP"
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, a value of 0 is returned.
Otherwise, \-1 is returned and the global variable
.I errno
is set to indicate the error.
.SH "ERRORS"
.I Statfs
fails if one or more of the following are true:
.TP 15
[ENOTDIR]
A component of the path prefix is not a directory.
.TP 15
[EPERM]
The pathname contains a character with the high-order bit set.
.TP 15
[ENAMETOOLONG]
The pathname was too long.
.TP 15
[ENOENT]
The named file does not exist.
.TP 15
[EACCES]
Search permission is denied for a component of the path prefix.
.TP 15
[EFAULT]
.I Buf
or
.I path
points to an invalid address.
.TP 15
[ELOOP]
Too many symbolic links were encountered in translating the pathname.
.TP 15
[EIO]
An I/O error occurred while reading from or writing to the file system.
.LP
.I Fstatfs
fails if one or both of the following are true:
.TP 15
[EBADF]
.I Fd
is not a valid open file descriptor.
.TP 15
[EFAULT]
.I Buf
points to an invalid address.
.TP 15
[EIO]
An I/O error occurred while reading from or writing to the file system.
