.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: swapon.2 1.7 90/02/07 $
.TH SWAPON 2 "\*(V)" "4BSD"
.SH NAME
swapon \- add a swap device for interleaved paging/swapping
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B swapon(special)
.B char *special;
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Swapon
makes the block device 
.I special 
available to the system for
allocation for paging and swapping.  The names of potentially
available devices are known to the system and defined at system
configuration time.  The size of the swap area on 
.I special 
is calculated at the time the device is first made available
for swapping.
.SH "RETURN VALUE
A 0 return value indicates success.  A \-1 return value
indicates an error, and an error code is stored in
.I errno.
.SH ERRORS
.TP 15
[EFAULT]
The memory pointed to by
.I special
lies outside the valid address space for the process.
.TP 15
[ENOTDIR]
A component of the path prefix is not a directory.
.TP 15
[EPERM]
The pathname contains a character with the high-order bit set.
.TP 15
[ENOENT]
The pathname is too long.
.TP 15
[ENOENT]
.I Special
does not exist.
.TP 15
[EACCES]
Search permission is denied for a component of the path prefix.
.TP 15
[ELOOP]
Too many symbolic links were encountered in translating the pathname.
.TP 15
[ENOTBLK]
.I Special
is not a block device.
.TP 15
[ENXIO]
The major device number of
.I special
is out of range (this indicates no device driver exists for the
associated hardware).
.TP 15
[EBUSY]
The device specified by
.I special
has already been made available for swapping.
.TP 15
[ENODEV]
The device specified by
.I special
was not configured into the system as a swap device.
.TP 15
[EIO]
An I/O error occurred while reading from or writing to the file system.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
swapon(8), config(8)
.SH BUGS
There is no way to stop swapping on a disk so that the pack may be
dismounted.
.PP
This call will be upgraded in future versions of the system.
