.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: symlink.2 1.9 87/02/20 $
.TH SYMLINK 2 "\*(V)" "4BSD"
.SH NAME
symlink \- make symbolic link to a file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft 3
symlink(name1, name2)
char *name1, *name2;
.fi
.ft 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
A symbolic link
.I name2
is created to
.IR name1
(\f2name2\fP is the name of the
file created, \f2name1\fP is the string
used in creating the symbolic link).
Either name may be an arbitrary path name; the files need not
be on the same file system.
.SH "RETURN VALUE
Upon successful completion, a zero value is returned.
If an error occurs, the error code is stored in \f2errno\fP
and a \-1 value is returned.
.SH "ERRORS
The symbolic link is made unless one or more of the
following are true:
.TP 15
[EPERM]
Either
.I name1
or
.I name2
contains a character with the high-order bit set.
.TP 15
[ENOENT]
One of the pathnames specified was too long.
.TP 15
[ENOTDIR]
A component of the \f2name2\fP prefix is not a directory.
.TP 15
[EEXIST]
\f2Name2\fP already exists.
.TP 15
[EACCES]
A component of the \f2name2\fP path prefix denies search permission.
.TP 15
[EROFS]
The file \f2name2\fP would reside on a read-only file system.
.TP 15
[EFAULT]
.I Name1
or
.I name2
points outside the process's allocated address space.
.TP 15
[ELOOP]
Too may symbolic links were encountered in translating the pathname.
.TP 15
[ENOSPC]
The directory in which the entry for the new symbolic link is being placed
cannot be extended because there is no space left on the file system containing
the directory.
.TP 15
[ENOSPC]
The new symbolic link cannot be created because there is no space left
on the file system which will contain the link.
.TP 15
[ENOSPC]
There are no free inodes on the file system on which the
symbolic link is being created.
.TP 15
[EIO]
An I/O error occurred while reading from or writing to the file system.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
csymlink(2), link(2), ln(1), readclink(2), readlink(2), unlink(2)
