.\" $Copyright: $
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: tmp_affinity.2 1.11 1991/08/06 22:38:00 $
.TH TMP_AFFINITY 2 "\*(V)" "DYNIX"
.SH NAME
tmp_affinity \- bind a process to a processor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft 3
.nf
#include <sys/tmp_ctl.h>
.PP
.ft 3
prev = tmp_affinity(processor);
int prev, processor;
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Tmp_affinity
allows a process to be bound to a specified logical processor.
Processor numbers start at zero and are numbered contiguously.
Deconfigured processors are not included.
The previous affinity is returned.
.PP
If the
.I processor
argument is AFF_NONE,
the process is released from any previous affinity
(that is, allowed to migrate).
If the
.I processor
argument is AFF_QUERY,
the current affinity, or AFF_NONE
is returned, without changing the current affinity.
.PP
Only the superuser is allowed to change affinity.
.PP
Affinity is inherited across the
.IR fork (2)
and
.IR exec (2)
system calls.
.SH "RETURN VALUE
The call returns \-1 on error (as well as setting errno).
If it succeeds it returns the previous affinity processor number
(or AFF_NONE, which is currently defined as -2).
.SH ERRORS
The
.I tmp_affinity
will fail if:
.TP 15
[EPERM]
Process does not have superuser capability.
.TP 15
[ENXIO]
.I processor
is out of range.
.TP 15
[ENODEV]
.I processor
is either offline or bad.
.SH SEE ALSO
tmp_ctl(2), online(8).
