.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: tmp_ctl.2 1.12 86/05/13 $
.TH TMP_CTL 2 "\*(V)" "DYNIX"
.SH NAME
tmp_ctl \- multi-processor control
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft 3
.nf
#include <sys/tmp_ctl.h>
.PP
.ft 3
ret = tmp_ctl(command, processor);
int ret, command, processor;
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Tmp_ctl
allows processes to query the status of the processor pool resource.
Superuser processes can also change the configuration.
The defined commands (from
.IR tmp_ctl.h )
have the following meanings:
.TP
TMP_NENG
returns the number of processors configured in the processor pool.
The processors may be online or offline.
However, deconfigured processors will not be included.
The
.I processor
argument is ignored.
.TP
TMP_OFFLINE
shuts down a processor.
The processor stops dispatching processes and is paused.
Only the superuser is allowed to offline a processor.
.TP
TMP_ONLINE
starts up a processor.
The processor initializes and begins scheduling user processes.
Only the superuser is allowed to online a processor.
.TP
TMP_QUERY
returns the state
(TMP_ENG_ONLINE or TMP_ENG_OFFLINE)
of the selected processor.
.SH "RETURN VALUE
The call returns \-1 on error (as well as setting errno).
The call returns 0 on successful completion, or the desired information
in the case of the query operations.
.SH ERRORS
The
.I tmp_ctl
will fail if:
.TP 15
[EPERM]
Process does not have superuser capability and an attempt to change the
processor pool configuration was attempted.
.TP 15
[ENXIO]
.I processor
is out of range.
.TP 15
[ENODEV]
.I processor
is bad.
.TP 15
[EINVAL]
.I processor
is already offline or online.
.TP 15
[EBUSY]
Attempting to offline a processor that has bound drivers or bound processes,
or attempting to offline the last processor.
.SH SEE ALSO
tmp_affinity(2), online(8).
