.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: truncate.2 1.12 90/06/06 $
.TH TRUNCATE 2 "\*(V)" "4BSD"
.SH NAME
truncate, ftruncate \- truncate a file to a specified length
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft 3
#include <sys/types.h>
truncate(path, length)
char *path;
off_t length;
.PP
.ft 3
ftruncate(fd, length)
int fd;
off_t length;
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Truncate
causes the file named by
.I path
or referenced by
.I fd
to have a size equal to 
.I length
bytes.  If the file previously
was larger than this size, the extra data
is lost.  If it was shorter, bytes between the old and new
lengths are read as zeroes.
With
.IR truncate ,
the file must be writable by user and with
.IR ftruncate ,
the file must be open for writing.
.SH "RETURN VALUES
A value of 0 is returned if the call succeeds.  If the call
fails a \-1 is returned, and the global variable \f2errno\fP
specifies the error.
.SH "ERRORS
.I Truncate
succeeds unless:
.TP 15
[EPERM]
The pathname contains a character with the high-order bit set.
.TP 15
[ENOENT]
The pathname was too long.
.TP 15
[ENOTDIR]
A component of the path prefix of \f2path\fP is not a directory.
.TP 15
[ENOENT]
The named file does not exist.
.TP 15
[EACCES]
A component of the \f2path\fP prefix denies search permission.
.TP 15
[EISDIR]
The named file is a directory.
.TP 15
[EROFS]
The named file resides on a read-only file system.
.TP 15
[ETXTBSY]
The file is a pure procedure (shared text) file that is being executed.
.TP 15
[EFAULT]
.I Path
points outside the process's allocated address space.
.TP 15
[EINVAL]
The
.I length
is negative.
.PP
.I Ftruncate
succeeds unless:
.TP 15
[EBADF]
The
.I fd
is not a valid descriptor.
.TP 15
[EINVAL]
The
.I fd
references a socket, not a file.
.TP 15
[EINVAL]
The
.I length
is negative.
.TP 15
[EIO]
An I/O error occurred while reading from or writing to the file system.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
open(2)
.SH BUGS
These calls should be generalized to allow ranges
of bytes in a file to be discarded.
