.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: unmount.2 1.6 87/05/07 $
.\" @(#)unmount.2 1.1 85/12/28 SMI;
.TH UNMOUNT 2 "\*(V)" "4BSD"
.SH NAME
unmount \- unmount a file system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\f3unmount(name)
char *name;\f1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.\".IX  unmount  ""  "\f2unmount\fP \(em demount file system"
.\".IX  "file system"  unmount  ""  "\f2unmount\fP \(em demount file system"
.\".IX  "file system"  demount  ""  "\f2unmount\fP \(em demount file system"
.\".IX  "remove file system unmount"  ""  "remove file system \(em \f2unmount\fP"
.\".IX  "demount file system unmount"  ""  "demount file system \(em \f2unmount\fP"
.I Unmount
announces to the system that the directory
.I name
is no longer to refer to the root of a mounted file system.  The directory
.I name
reverts to its ordinary interpretation.
.SH "RETURN VALUE
.I Unmount
returns 0 if the action occurred; \-1 if
if the directory is inaccessible or
does not have a mounted file system,
or if there are active files in the mounted file system.
.SH ERRORS
.I Unmount
may fail with one of the following errors:
.TP 15
[EPERM]
The caller is not the super-user.
.TP 15
[EINVAL]
.I Name
is not the root of a mounted file system.
.TP 15
[EBUSY]
A process is holding a reference to a file located on the file system.
.TP 15
[ENOTDIR]
A component of the path prefix is not a directory.
.TP 15
[EPERM]
The pathname contains a character with the high-order bit set.
.TP 15
[ENAMETOOLONG]
The pathname was too long.
.TP 15
[ENOENT]
.I name
does not exist.
.TP 15
[EACCES]
Search permission is denied for a component of the path prefix.
.TP 15
[EFAULT]
.I name
points outside the process's allocated address space.
.TP 15
[ELOOP]
Too many symbolic links were encountered in translating the pathname.
.TP 15
[EIO]
An I/O error occurred while reading from or writing to the file system.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
mount(2), mount(8)
.SH BUGS
The error codes are in a state of disarray; too many errors
appear to the caller as one value.
