.\" $Copyright: $
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: utimes.2 1.9 1991/05/15 18:13:35 $
.TH UTIMES 2 "\*(V)" "4BSD"
.SH NAME
utimes \- set file times
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft 3
#include <sys/time.h>
.PP
.ft 3
utimes(file, tvp)
char *file;
struct timeval tvp[2];
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I utimes
call
sets the
\*(lqaccessed\*(rq and \*(lqupdated\*(rq times
for
.I file.
.PP
If
.I tvp
is NULL, the \*(lqaccess\*(rq and \*(lqupdated\*(rq times are set to the
current time.  A process must be the owner of the file or have write
permission to use
.I utimes
in this manner.
.PP
If
.I tvp
is not NULL,
.I utimes
uses the \*(lqaccess\*(rq and \*(lqupdated\*(rq times in that order
from the tvp vector to set the corresponding recorded times for file.
The caller must be the owner of the file or the super-user to use
.I utimes
this way.
.SH "RETURN VALUE
Upon successful completion, a value of 0 is returned.
Otherwise, a value of \-1 is returned and
.I errno
is set to indicate the error.
.SH "ERRORS
.I Utime
will fail if one or more of the following are true:
.TP 15
[EPERM]
The pathname contained a character with the high-order bit set.
.TP 15
[ENOENT]
The pathname was too long.
.TP 15
[ENOENT]
The named file does not exist.
.TP 15
[ENOTDIR]
A component of the path prefix is not a directory.
.TP 15
[EACCES]
A component of the path prefix denies search permission.
.TP 15
[EPERM]
The process is not super-user and not the owner of the file.
.TP 15
[EACCES]
The effective user ID is not super-user and not the
owner of the file and \f2times\fP is NULL and write access
is denied.
.TP 15
[EROFS]
The file system containing the file is mounted read-only.
.TP 15
[EFAULT]
.I File
or
.I tvp
points outside the process's allocated address space.
.TP 15
[ELOOP]
Too many symbolic links were encountered in translating the pathname.
.TP 15
[EIO]
An I/O error occurred while reading from or writing to the file system.
.SH SEE ALSO
stat(2)
