.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: vhangup.2 1.8 90/02/07 $
.TH VHANGUP 2 "\*(V)" "4BSD"
.SH NAME
vhangup \- virtually ``hangup'' the current control terminal
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B vhangup()
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Vhangup
is used by the initialization process
.IR init (8)
(among others) to arrange that users are given
\*(lqclean\*(rq' terminals at login,
by revoking access of the previous users' processes to the terminal.
To effect this,
.I vhangup
searches the system tables for references to the control terminal
of the invoking process, revoking access permissions
on each instance of the terminal which it finds.
Further attempts to access the terminal by the affected processes
will yield i/o errors (EBADF).
Finally,
a hangup signal (SIGHUP) is sent to the process group of the
control terminal.
.PP
The use of this call is restricted to the superuser.
.SH "RETURN VALUE
A 0 return value indicates success.  A \-1 return value
indicates an error, and an error code is stored in
.I errno.
.SH ERRORS
.TP 15
[EPERM]
The caller is not the superuser.
.SH SEE ALSO
init (8)
.SH BUGS
Access to
the control terminal via
.B /dev/tty
is still possible.
.PP
If the device can be opened through two different inodes (distinct,
non-hardlinked filenames created with separate
.IR mknod (2)
calls),
processes that have the alternate inodes open do
.B not
receive the hangup signal.
.PP
This call should be replaced by an automatic mechanism which
takes place on process exit.
