.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: ypmatch.1 1.2 87/04/06 $
.\" @(#)ypmatch.1 1.1 85/12/28 SMI; 
.TH YPMATCH 1 "\*(V)" "4BSD"
.SH NAME
ypmatch - print the value of one or more keys from a yp map
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ypmatch 
[ \f3-d \f2domain\fR ]
[ \f3-k\fR ]
[ \f3-t\fR ]
.I key 
\&.\|.\|.
.I mname 
.br
.B "ypmatch \-x"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.I Ypmatch
prints the values associated with one or more keys from the 
yellow pages (YP) map (database) specified by a
.IR mname ,
which may be either a
.I mapname
or a map 
.IR nickname .
.LP
Multiple keys can be specified; the same map is searched for all keys.
The keys must be exact values insofar as capitalization and length
are concerned.
No pattern matching is available.  
If a key is not matched, a diagnostic message is produced.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 10
.B \-d
Specify a domain other that the default domain.
.TP 10
.B \-k
Before printing the value of a key, print the key itself, followed by a
colon (':').  This is useful only if the keys are not duplicated in the
values, or you've specified so many keys that the output could
be confusing.
.TP 10
.B \-t
Inhibit translation of nickname to mapname.
For example,
.Ps
ypmatch \-t zippy passwd
.Pe
fails because there is no map named
.IR passwd ,
while
.Ps
ypmatch zippy passwd
.Pe
is translated to
.IR "ypmatch zippy passwd.byname" .
.TP 10
.B \-x
Display the map nickname table.
This lists the nicknames
the command knows of (\f2mnames\fP), and indicates the
.I mapname
associated with each
nickname.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
ypcat(1),
ypfiles(5)
