.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: yppasswd.1 1.3 87/04/06 $
.\" @(#)yppasswd.1 1.1 85/12/28 SMI;
.TH YPPASSWD 1 "\*(V)" "4BSD"
.SH NAME
yppasswd \- change login password in yellow pages
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B yppasswd
\ [ name ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\".IX  "yppasswd command"  ""  "\f2yppasswd\fP \(em change login password in yellow pages"
.\".IX  "change login password in yellow pages"  ""  "change login password in yellow pages \(em \f2yppasswd\fP"
.\".IX  "yellow pages"  "change login password in"  ""  "change login password in \(em \f2yppasswd\fP"
.\".IX  "password"  "change in yellow pages"  ""  "change in yellow pages \(em \f2yppasswd\fP"
.\".IX  "login password"  "change in yellow pages"  ""  "change in yellow pages \(em \f2yppasswd\fP"
.I Yppasswd
changes (or installs) a password associated with the user
.IR name
(your own name by default)
in the yellow pages.  The yellow pages password may be different
from the one on your own machine.
.LP
.I Yppasswd
prompts for the old yellow pages password and then for the new one.
The caller must supply both.
The new password must be typed twice, to forestall mistakes.
.LP
New passwords must be at least four characters long,
if they use a sufficiently rich alphabet,
and at least six characters long if monocase.
These rules are relaxed if you are insistent enough.
.LP
Only the owner of the name or the super-user may change a password;
in either case,
you must prove you know the old password.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
passwd(1),
ypfiles(5),
yppasswdd(8C)
.SH BUGS
The update protocol passes all the information to the server in
one rpc call, without ever looking at it.
Thus,
if you enter your old password incorrectly,
you will not be notified until after you have entered your new password.
