.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: ypwhich.1 1.3 87/04/06 $
.\" @(#)ypwhich.1 1.1 85/12/28 SMI; 
.TH YPWHICH 1 "\*(V)" "4BSD"
.SH NAME
ypwhich \- which host is the YP server or map master?
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ypwhich
[
.B \-d
[
.I domain 
] 
[
.B \-V1
|
.B \-V2
] 
[ 
.I hostname 
]
.br
.B ypwhich
[
.B \-t
.I mapname
]
[
.B \-d
.I domain 
] 
.B \-m
.I mname
.br
.B "ypwhich \-x"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\".IX  "ypwhich command"  ""  "\f2ypwhich\fP \(em who is yellow pages server"
.I Ypwhich
tells which YP server supplies yellow pages services to a YP client,
or which is the master for a map.
If invoked without arguments, it gives the YP server
for the local machine.  If
.I hostname
is specified, that machine is queried
to find out which YP master it is using.
.LP
Refer to
.IR ypfiles (5)
and
.IR ypserv (8)
for an overview of the yellow pages.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 10
.B \-d
Use
.I domain
instead of the default domain.
.TP 10
.B \-V1
Which server is serving v.1 YP protocol-speaking client processes?
.TP 10
.B \-V2
Which server is serving v.2 YP protocol client processes?
.IP
If neither version is specified, 
.I ypwhich
attempts attempts to locate the server that supplies the
(current) v.2 services.  If there is no v.2 server currently
bound, 
.I ypwhich
then attempts to locate the server supplying the v.1 services.
Since YP servers and YP clients are both backward compatible,
the user need seldom be concerned about which version is currently in 
use.
.TP 10
\f3\-t \f2mapname\fR
Inhibit nickname translation;
useful if there is a mapname identical to a nickname.
This is not true of any standard map.
.TP 10
.B \-m
Find the master YP server for a map.  No
.I hostname
can be specified with
.BR \-m .
.I mname
can be a mapname, or a nickname for a map.  
.TP 10
.B \-x
Display the map nickname table.
This lists the nicknames
the command knows of (\f2mnames\fP), and indicates the
.I mapname
associated with each
nickname.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
ypfiles(5),
rpcinfo(8),
ypserv(8),
ypset(8)
