.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: adduser.8 1.6 90/03/20 $
.TH ADDUSER 8 "\*(V)" "4BSD"
.SH NAME
adduser \- procedure for adding new users
.SH DESCRIPTION
A new user must choose a unique login name, one that does not 
already appear in
.I /etc/passwd.
To add an account, edit a line into the password file; be sure to lock 
the password file with
.BR vipw (8).
.PP
Assign the new user a group and user ID.
The user ID should be unique, because it is used
to control access to files.
Typically, users working on
similar projects are put in the same group.  Thus at UCB we have
groups for system staff, faculty, graduate students, and a few special
groups for large projects.  System staff is group \*(lq10\*(rq for historical
reasons, and the superuser is in this group.
.PP
A skeletal account for a new user \*(lqernie\*(rq would look like this:
.IP
ernie*235:20:& Kovacs,508E,7925,6428202:/mnt/grad/ernie:/bin/csh
.PP
The first field is the login name \*(lqernie\*(rq.  The next field is the
encrypted password, which is not given and must be initialized using
.BR passwd (1).
The next two fields are the user and group ID's.
Traditionally, users in group 20 are graduate students and have account
names with numbers in the 200's.
The next field gives information about ernie's name, office number, and office
and home phone.
This information is used by the
.BR finger (1)
program.
From this information we can tell that ernie's real name is
\*(lqErnie Kovacs\*(rq (the & here serves to repeat \*(lqernie\*(rq
with appropriate capitalization), his office is 508 Evans Hall,
his extension is x2-7925, and his home phone number is 642-8202.
You can modify the
.BR finger (1)
program if necessary to allow different information to be encoded in
this field.  The UCB version of finger knows several things particular
to Berkeley:  for example, phone extensions start with 2\-, offices ending
in E are in Evans Hall and offices ending in C are
in Cory Hall.
.PP
The final two fields give a login directory and a login shell name.
Traditionally, user files live on a filesystem whose machine's
single letter
.BR net (1)
address is the first of two characters.  Thus, on the Berkeley CS Department
VAX, whose Berknet address is \f2csvax\f1 (abbreviated \f2v\f1), the user file
systems are mounted on /va, /vb, etc.
On each such filesystem are subdirectories for each group
of users, i.e., /va/staff and /vb/prof.
This is not strictly necessary but helps keep the number of files in the
top-level directories small enough.
.PP
The login shell will default to \f2/bin/sh\f1 if none is given.
Most users at Berkeley choose \f2/bin/csh\f1, so this is usually
specified here.
.PP
It is useful to give new users some help in getting started, supplying
them with a few skeletal files such as
.I \&.profile
if they use \f2/bin/sh\f1, or
.I \&.cshrc
and
.I \&.login
if they use \f2/bin/csh\f1.
The directory
\f2/usr/skel\f1 contains skeletal definitions of such files.
New users should be given copies of these files which, for instance,
arrange to use
.BR tset (1)
automatically at each login.
.SH FILES
.ta 2i
\f2/etc/passwd\f1	password file
.br
\f2/usr/skel\f1	skeletal login directory
.SH SEE ALSO
passwd(1), finger(1), chsh(1), chfn(1), passwd(5), vipw(8)
.SH BUGS
User information should be stored in its own database separate from
the password file.
