.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
.\"Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\"Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\"This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\"only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\"inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\"be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\"other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\"hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: boot.8s 1.9 91/01/21 $
.TH BOOT 8S "\*(V)" "DYNIX"
.SH NAME
boot \- run a standalone program or bring up DYNIX
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BR "From the powerup monitor" :
.br
.sp
.in +1
.IR "on SCED-based systems" :
.br
*
.B b 
[
.I flag
] [
.I program
[
.I arg
] ... ]
.br
.sp
.IR "on SSM-based systems" :
.br
--->
\f3bh \f1[ '[\f2flag\f1]\f2program\f1 [
.I arg
] ...' ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B boot
brings up the DYNIX operating system,
or loads other standalone programs into memory.
.PP
.I flag
is the value of the configuration flag.
Standalone programs (including
.B boot
and the DYNIX  kernel) interpret various bits of the configuration 
flag.  On SCED systems, if
.I flag
is not specified, a default value is taken from the most recent
.B wf
powerup monitor command.  On SSM systems, if
.I flag
is not specified as part of the bootstring it defaults to zero.
On SSM systems, there must not be any space characters between
.I flag
and
.I program.
Additionally the single quotes are required only if
the optional
.I arg
field is provided.
.PP
If the lowest bit of the configuration flag is one (that is, if the
configuration flag is odd),
.B boot
will ask for the name of the program to be loaded into memory.
Otherwise, the name is taken from the command line, or (if not present)
the value specified the last time the bootstring was set from the
powerup monitor. For SCED systems, the command for setting the
bootstring is
.I wn0=bootstring
and for SSM systems, the command is
.I bh os='bootstring'.
.PP
The name of the program is given in standalone file notation.
Standalone file notation is represented as:
.RS
.sp
.IR dv ( un , su )\c
.I file
.sp
.RE
where
.I dv
is the name of the device driver, 
.I un
and
.I su
are the unit and subunit parameters (interpreted by the device driver),
and
.I file
is the name of the file to be run.
Supported device drivers for SCED systems are
\f3sd\f1, \f3ts\f1, \f3xt\f1 and \f3zd\f1.  Supported device
drivers for SSM systems are
\f3wd\f1 and \f3tm\f1.
In general, for disk drivers,
.I un
selects among the various drives,
.I su
selects a particular disk partition, and
.I file
is a DYNIX file name relative to the top level directory
of the DYNIX file system located in the selected partition.
For tape drivers,
.I un
selects among the various drives,
.I su
selects a particular file on the tape (bounded by EOF tape marks), and
.I file
is unused.
.PP
.B boot
loads the program into memory, displays the allocation of 
\f3text\f1, \f3data\f1, and
\f3bss\f1 (uninitialized data), and then begins execution of the program.
When the program exits, the powerup monitor resumes.
.PP
Arguments for the program may follow the program name, as long as they
are separated from the program name by at least one space.
.B boot
makes the entire (uninterpreted) command line available to the invoked program.
The invoked program must then parse the command line to determine the arguments.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR "DYNIX System Administration Guide" ,
.IR "DYNIX Diagnostics User's Guide"

