.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: bootflags.8 1.5 86/09/05 $
.TH BOOTFLAGS 8 "\*(V)" "DYNIX"
.SH NAME
bootflags \- display/change system boot flags
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bootflags
[-p] [-c] [-v] [flag=value] ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Bootflags
displays or changes the flags
that control system boot and reboot actions.
Unless the
.B \-p
option is specified,
only the temporary flags are affected.
.TP
.B \-p
Display or change the permanent boot flags
rather than the temporary boot flags.
.TP
.B \-c
Copy temporary boot flags to the permanent boot flags.
If the
.B \-p
flag is given,
copy the permanent boot flags into the temporary boot flags.
The copy is done after all the changes to flags have been made.
.TP
.B \-v
Display the flags after they have been changed.
.PP
The assignments are as follows.
All numeric values (f, ra0, ra1), are assumed to be in decimal unless
they start with ``0x'', in which case they are taken in hexadecimal.
String values (n0, n1), are taken literally as character strings.
.PP
.br
.ns
.TP 15
.I assignment
.I effect
.br
.ns
.TP 
.RI n0= string
Change primary boot name to
.I string.
.br
.ns
.TP 
.RI n1= string
Change secondary boot name to
.I string.
.br
.ns
.TP 
.RI f= n
Set boot flags to
.I n.
.br
.ns
.TP 
.RI ra0= n
Change primary reboot reconfiguration structure address to
.I n.
.br
.ns
.TP 
.RI ra1= n
Change secondary reboot reconfiguration structure address to
.I n.
.ns
.PP
For example, to change the permanent boot flags so that the secondary
boot name is ``sd(48,0)stand/dump sd(48,1) 1000 /dev/sd0b'', and 
the secondary reboot reconfiguration structure address is 0x30000,
.IP
.nf
bootflags -p 'n1=sd(48,0)stand/dump sd(48,1) 1000 /dev/sd0b' 'ra1=0x30000'
.fi
.PP
Note the use of quotes to collect the arguments of the assignments
together.
.SH FILES
.TP 15
/dev/smemco
Console SCSI/Ether memory.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
