.\" $Copyright: $
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: bp.8 1.3 1991/08/13 18:07:27 $
.TH BP 8 "\*(V)" "DYNIX"
.SH NAME
bp \- binary patcher
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/bp
[
.B \-qdh
] [
.B \-s symfile
]
.I filename
\f2symbol\f1\[\f3+offset
] [
.B new_value
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Bp
is a binary file patch program.  When new_value
is omitted, filename will be opened readonly
and the value at symbol displayed.
When new_value is specified,
filename is opened for reading and writing,
the old value at symbol read, new_value
is written and both new and old values are displayed.
.PP
The
.B \-q
option makes
.I bp
quiet about displaying anything.
The
.B \-d
and
.B \-h
options set the display radix
to decimal and hex respectively.
New_value and offset are assumed 
to be decimal numbers unless 
they have a leading '0x' which 
is recognized as indicating a hex number.
.PP
Following the
.B \-s
option is the name of a file
to look up the value of symbol.
Symfile can be identical to filename.
A leading underscore will be optionally added
to symbol when looking for a match.
.PP
It is possible to specify an absolute
address by omiting symbol and just
specifying offset.
.PP
If both symbol and offset are specified,
there must be no space between the symbol and offset (only a '+'),
otherwise offset will appear to be a new_value,
and symbol will be modified.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
nm(1)
.SH BUGS
.I Bp
only reads and writes in 4 byte quantities.
.PP
The symbol matching can be fooled into matching 
the wrong symbol if you specify a symbol without 
a leading underbar and two symbols exist such that
one has a leading underbar and the other does not.
