.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: catman.8 1.7 87/08/03 $
.TH CATMAN 8 "\*(V)" "4BSD"
.SH NAME
catman \- create the cat files for the manual
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/etc/catman
[
.B \-p
] [
.B \-n
] [
.B \-w
]
[ sections ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Catman
creates the preformatted versions of the on-line manual from the nroff
input files.
Each manual page is examined and those whose preformatted versions are
missing or out of date are recreated.
If any changes are made,
.I catman
will recreate the
.B /usr/lib/whatis
database.
.PP
If a parameter does not begin with a `\-',
it is interpreted as a list of manual sections within which
.I catman
looks.
In the following example,
.B catman
updates only the manual sections
1, 2, and 3:
.IP
.B catman 123
.PP
Options:
.TP
.B \-n
prevents creations of
.BR /usr/lib/whatis .
.TP
.B \-p
prints what would be done instead of doing it.
.TP
.B \-w
causes only the 
.B /usr/lib/whatis
database to be created.
No manual reformatting is done.
.SH FILES
.ta 2i
/usr/man/man?/*.*	raw (nroff input) manual sections
.br
/usr/man/cat?/*.*	preformatted manual pages
.br
/usr/lib/makewhatis	commands to make whatis database
.DT
.SH "SEE ALSO"
man(1)
