.\" $Copyright: $
."Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
."Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
." 
."This software is furnished under a license and may be used
."only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
."inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
."be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
."other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
."hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: ccompress.8 1.2 1991/08/29 15:54:17 $
.TH CCOMPRESS 8 "\*(V)" "4BSD/DYNIX"
.SH NAME
ccompress \- compress a system savecore image
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ccompress
[ 
.B \-s
.I seg_size
]
[ 
.B \-P
.I processes
]
[ 
.B \-o
.I outdir
]
.B file
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ccompress
is used to convert a
.I vmcore
named
.B file
to the savecore compressed format.  The command is written to run
in parallel; by default it will use all on-line engines.  Usually
a file with ".ZZ" appended to the name is created in the current
directory,
.BR \-o
may be specified to cause this file to be created in a different
directory. Crash is capable of reading the ".ZZ"  format of core
image "on-the-fly". 
.PP
The option
.BR \-P
specifies how many parallel processes should be used for compressing the
input. The best performance is achieved if the number of compressor 
processes equals the number of on-line engines, which is the default
behaviour.
.PP
.I seg_size
specifies how much data (in 1k byte increments) is 
compressed as a block.  The default
of 8K provides good average compression; the
.I seg_size
is generally only specified by
.I ccompress
wizards.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR savecore (8),
.BR crash (8),
.BR unccompress (8).
