.\" $Copyright: $
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: cdump.8s 1.2 1991/07/08 17:05:38 $
.TH CDUMP 8S "\*(V)" "DYNIX"
.SH NAME
cdump \- standalone compress memory dumper
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BR "From the powerup monitor" :
.br
.sp
.IR "on SCED-based systems" :
.br
*
.B b 80
.IR dv ( un , su )\c
.B stand/cdump
.I dumpdev offset dynixname
[
.I size
] [
.B \-o
]
.PP
or
.sp
*
.B b 80
.IR dv ( un , su )\c
.B stand/cdump
.B \-f
.I dumplist dynixname
[
.B \-o
]
.br
.sp
.IR "on SSM-based systems" :
.br
--->
.B bh '88\c
.IR dv ( un , su )\c
.B stand/cdump
.I dumpdev offset dynixname
[
.I size
] [
.B \-o
]'
.PP
or
.sp
--->
.B bh '88\c
.IR dv ( un , su )\c
.B stand/cdump
.B \-f
.I dumplist dynixname
[
.B \-o
]'
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Cdump
dumps a compressed  image of memory. The compressed image is of a form
which is readable by crash(8) "on-the-fly".
.I Cdump
writes the compressed image at 
.I offset
blocks (specified as a decimal integer) past the beginning of device
.I dumpdev
(specified in standalone file notation; see
.IR boot (8S)).
.I Dynixname
should be the name of the same device as
.I dumpdev
expressed as a DYNIX file (usually beginning with
.IR /dev/ ).
.PP
The
.B \-f
flag allows multiple dump devices to be specified.
The
.I dumplist
file name must be specified in standalone notation, and
.I dynixname
should be the DYNIX equivalent of the standalone filename
.IR dumplist .
Each line in the
.I dumplist
file has the format:
.RS
.sp 1
.I dumpdev offset dynixname
[
.I size
]
.sp 1
.RE
Each line of the file describes where a section of the dump will
placed.
.PP
By default, all of memory is dumped, up to the size of the
disk partition of a VTOC disk, or 16 Mbytes for a compatability disk,
minus the
.IR offset .
Other memory sizes (smaller or larger) may be specified with the
.I size
parameter, measured in 512-byte sectors (as a decimal integer). The value of
.I size
is rounded down to the nearest mutiple of 32 Kbytes.
If the disk has a VTOC, the size of the disk partition will be used as a
limit on the value of
.I size.
Dump sizes are treated as the space available on a device, for the compressed
image, and not as the amount of memory to be saved on that device.
.
.PP
.I Cdump
normally aborts if an attempt is made to overwrite an existing dump.
If
.B \-o
is specified,
.I cdump
will proceed with the dump even if a previous dump has not been cleared.
.PP
The
.B wn1
powerup monitor command,
or the
.B n1=
option of the
.IR bootflags (8)
command,
can be used to store a permanent dump invocation,
so that DYNIX can automatically generate dumps.
The standard
.I /etc/rc.local
already invokes
.IR bootflags
to do this.
A typical invocation of cdump looks like:
.sp 1
.RS
b 80 sd(0,0)stand/cdump sd(0,1) 1000 /dev/sd0b
.sp
or
.sp
bh '88wd(0,0)stand/cdump wd(0,1) 1000 /dev/wd0b'

.RE
.PP
A typical use of cdump specifying multiple dump partitions looks like:
.sp 1
.RS
b 80 sd(0,0)stand/cdump -f sd(0,0)etc/DUMPLIST /etc/DUMPLIST
.RE
.sp 1
An example of /etc/DUMPLIST looks like:
.sp 1
.RS
sd(0,1) 1000 /dev/sd0b 33440
.br
sd(8,1)    0 /dev/sd1b 33440
.br
zd(0,1)    0 /dev/zd0b 67716
.RE
.PP
.I Note:
An equivalent compressed image of the memory can also be obtained by
taking a regular dump (Using dump), and then invoking savecore with the 
"-C" option. This is normally a faster method because savecore does
compression in parallel. Cdump is slower but requires less swap space. 
.sp 1
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
boot(8S),
savecore(8),
.I "DYNIX System Administration Guide"
