.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: config.8 1.13 90/03/20 $
.TH CONFIG 8 "\*(V)" "4BSD/DYNIX"
.SH NAME
config \- build system configuration files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/etc/config
[
.B \-src
]
.I config_file
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B Config
builds a set of system configuration files from a short file that describes
the system being configured.  It also accepts input files
that tell
.B config
what files are needed to generate a system.
This can be augmented by a configuration-specific set of files
that give alternate files for a specific machine.
Additional input files describe other system configuration attributes
(see "FILES" later in this entry).
If the
.B \-src
option is supplied,
.B config
makes a system that uses the DYNIX source code.
.PP
.B Config
should be run from the
.I conf
subdirectory of the system source (usually \f2/sys/conf\f1).
.B Config
assumes that a directory
.I "../config_file"
has already been created, and it places all its output files there.  
The output of
.B config
consists of a number of files:
.I ioconf.c
contains a description
of what I/O devices are attached to the system;
.I conf.c
contains a description of the block and character device table
entry points;
.I makefile
is a file used by
.BR make (1)
in building the system; a set of header files contains
the number of various devices to be compiled into the system;
and a set of swap configuration files contains definitions for
the disk areas to be used for swapping, the root file system,
and argument processing.
.PP
If you have supplied the
.B \-src
option, you will need to invoke
``make depend''
in the directory in which the new makefile was created
after running
.BR config .
.B Config
reminds you of this upon completion.
.PP
If you get any other error messages from
.B config,
fix the problems in your configuration file and try again.
If you try to compile a system that had configuration errors, you
will probably meet with failure.
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta +\w'/sys/conf/controllers.balance'u+3m
/sys/conf/makefile.balance	generic makefile for DYNIX 
/sys/conf/files	common files from which system is built
/sys/conf/files.balance	DYNIX-specific files
/sys/conf/devices.balance	major device mapping file for DYNIX 
/sys/conf/controllers.balance	possible controller types with config flags
/sys/conf/DYNIX	DYNIX kernel file	
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
"Managing the DYNIX Kernel," \f2DYNIX System Administration Guide\f1
.SH BUGS
The line numbers reported in error messages are usually off by one.
