.\" $Copyright: $
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: copy2.8s 1.9 1991/06/19 22:21:31 $
.TH COPY2 8S "\*(V)" "DYNIX"
.SH NAME
copy2 \- perform a standalone data transfer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BR "From the powerup monitor" :
.br
.sp
.in +1
.IR "on SCED-based systems" :
.br
*
.B b 0
.IR dv ( un , su )\c
.B stand/copy2
.br
.sp
.IR "on SSM-based systems" :
.br
--->
.B bh 
.IR dv ( un , su )\c
.B stand/copy2
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Copy2
transfers data from one device (or device partition) to another.
.I Copy2
prompts for the two device names,
which are specified in standalone file notation (see
.IR boot (8S)).
.I Copy2
also prompts for whether verification is selected (if selected,
the data will be reread and verified after it is written),
the offsets at which the transfer will begin,
and the maximum number of blocks to copy.
Messages are intended to be self-explanatory.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
cp(1), boot(8S), cat(8S), copy(8S), ls(8S),
.I "DYNIX System Administration Guide"
.SH "BUGS"
Caution should be used when using
.I copy2.
There exists a bug that will allow
.I copy2
to return success when copying to a non-existent device.  Be sure
of the existence of the devices given to
.I copy2.

