.\" $Copyright: $
.\"Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991
.\"Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\"This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\"only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\"inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\"be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\"other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\"hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: crash.8 1.1 1991/06/21 00:53:58 $
.TH CRASH 8 "\*(V)" "4BSD/DYNIX" 
.SH NAME
crash \- examine system images
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "/etc/crash [system_image] [system_namelist]"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B crash
is used to examine system memory images
interactively.  It can be run on-line against
.I /dynix
and
.I /dev/kmem.
It may also be run against a
.I savecore
of a crashed system.  It can read both
.I vmcore
and the compressed
.I vmcore.ZZ
formats of core image "on-the-fly".
The
.B help
command lists available commands.
.PP
.B help
lists the following commands:
.PP
.TS
tab(:);
c l c
c c c
l l l.
\f3Name:Long Name:Description
       :or Option\f1

(D):Debug:change debug settings
(dis):disassemble:disassemble addr count
(hdr):bufhdr:buffer headers
(dp):dp:dump physical
     ::\0i.e., dp addr [\f2count\f1] [\f3dhoxDHOXcs\f1]
(dv):dv:dump virtual
     ::\0i.e., dv addr [\f2count\f1] [\f3dhoxDHOXcs\f1]
(file):file:file table
(inode):inode:inode table
(kfp):kfp:frame pointer for kernel stack
::  trace start
(every):every:repeat periodically
(ex):expr:evaluate expressions
(e):engine:display engine tables
(map):map:display resources maps
(N):News:news and features
(p):proc:process table (one per line)
            :\0\f3\-l\f1:process table (long listing)
            :\0\f3\-r\f1:RUN & ONPROC procs only
            :\0\f3\-o\f1:ONPROC procs only
(q):quit:quit or exit
(set):set var=expr:set variable equal to expression value
(s):stack:kernel stack trace (all procs)
           :\0\f3\-r\f1:kernel stack modifier (display
           :: registers)
           :\0\f3\-f\f1:kernel stack modifier (use kfp value)
           :\0\f3\-e\f1 \f2value\f1:kernel stack trace (give engine #)
           :\0value:kernel stack trace (give proc #)
(t):trace:turn on debug tracing
(upte):upte:dump user pte's (give proc #)
(u):user:display user area (give proc #)
(vnode):vnode:dump a vnode table (sort of)
(vtop):vtop:virtual to physical
        :\0\!!:escape to shell
        :\0\!!!:repeat last command
        :\0\.<\f2file\f1>:source a file
(?):?:print this list of available commands
(h):help:print this list of available commands
(w):what:interpret addresses, symbols or
::  expressions
.TE
.SH FILES
.nf
/dev/kmem	default system image
/dynix	default system namelist
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR savecore (8),
.BR ccompress (8).
.SH WARNINGS
This command is intended for system debugging and
is not supported software.
