.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
.\"
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.  This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: diskpart.8 1.8 86/08/18 $
.TH DISKPART 8 "\*(V)" "4BSD/DYNIX"
.SH NAME
diskpart \- calculate default disk partition sizes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/diskpart
[
.B \-p
] [
.B \-d
]
disk-type
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Diskpart
is used to calculate the disk partition sizes based on the
default rules used at the University of California at Berkeley.
These values are to be used on an advisory basis only;
your actual needs may dictate different values.
If the
.B \-p
option is supplied, tables suitable for inclusion in a device driver
are produced.
If the
.B \-d
option is supplied, an entry suitable for inclusion in the disk
description file
.I /etc/disktab
is generated; see
.IR disktab (5).
.I Diskpart
assumes that the disk is formatted with the DEC standard 144 format.
Space is always left in the last partition on the disk
for a bad sector forwarding table.  The space reserved
is one track for the replicated copies of the table and
sufficient tracks to hold a pool of 126 sectors to which bad sectors
are mapped.  For more information, see
.IR bad144 (8).
.PP
The disk partition sizes are based on the total amount of
space on the disk as give in the table below (all values
are supplied in units of 512 byte sectors).  The `c' partition
is, by convention, used to access the entire physical disk, including
the space reserved for the bad sector forwarding table.
In normal operation, either the `g' partition is used, or the
`d', `e', and `f' partitions are used.  The `g' and `f' partitions
are variable sized, occupying whatever space remains after allocation
of the fixed sized partitions.
If the disk is smaller than 20 Megabytes, then
.I diskpart
aborts with the message ``disk too small, calculate by hand''.
.in +0.5i
.nf

.ta \w'Partition  'u +\w'20-60 MB  'u +\w'61-205 MB  'u +\w'206-355 MB  'u +\w'356+ MB'u
Partition	20-60 MB	61-205 MB	206-355 MB	356+ MB
a	15884	15884	15884	15884
b	10032	33440	33440	66880
d	15884	15884	15884	15884
e	unused	55936	55936	307200
h	unused	unused	291346	291346

.fi
.in -0.5i
.PP
If an unknown disk type is specified,
.I diskpart
will prompt for the required disk geometry information.
.SH SEE ALSO
disktab(5),
bad144(8)
.SH BUGS
Certain default partition sizes are based on historical artifacts,
and may result in unsatisfactory layouts.
.PP
When using the \-d flag, alternate disk names are not included
in the output.
.PP
.I Diskpart
only understands how to handle drives formatted via the DEC standard 144
format.
For other formats, use
.I /etc/disktab
for partition information.
