.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: drtest.8s 1.7 90/10/13 $
.TH DRTEST 8S "\*(V)" "DYNIX"
.SH NAME
drtest \- standalone disk test program
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BR "From the powerup monitor" :
.br
.sp
.in +1
.IR "on SCED-based systems" :
.br
*
.B b 0
.IR dv ( un , su )\c
.B stand/drtest
.br
.sp
.IR "on SSM-based systems" :
.br
--->
.B bh 
.IR dv ( un , su )\c
.B stand/drtest

.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Drtest
invokes a simple diagnostic test to read all accessible data
from the specified device.
.PP
While
.I drtest
is running,
the cylinder number is printed on the console
for every 10th cylinder read.
.PP
.I Drtest
prompts for needed information.
Device names are specified in standalone file notation (see
.IR boot (8S)).
Messages are intended to be self-explanatory.
.SH EXAMPLE
A sample run of
.I drtest
is shown below.
In this example
(using a 750),
.I drtest
is loaded from the root file system;
usually it will be loaded from the machine's console storage device.
Boldface means user input.
As usual,
``#'' and ``@'' may be used to edit input.
.nf
.in +5
.sp 1
>>>\f3B/3\f1
%%
loading hk(0,0)boot
Boot
: \f3hk(0,0)drtest\f1
Test program for stand-alone up and hp driver
.sp 1
Debugging level (1=bse, 2=ecc, 3=bse+ecc)?
Enter disk name [type(adapter,unit), e.g. hp(1,3)]? \f3hp(0,0)\f1
Device data: #cylinders=1024, #tracks=16, #sectors=32
Testing hp(0,0), chunk size is 16384 bytes.
\f2(chunk size is the number of bytes read per disk access)\fP
Start ...Make sure hp(0,0) is online
 ...
\f2(errors are reported as they occur)\fP
 ...
\f2(...program restarts to allow checking other disks)\fP
\f2(...to abort halt machine with ^P)\fP
.in -5
.fi
.sp 1
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The diagnostics are intended to be self explanatory.
Note,
however,
that the device number in the diagnostic messages is identified as
\f2typeX\f1
(instead of \f2type(a,u)\f1),
where \f2X\f1 = a*8+u, e.g., hp(1,3) becomes hp11.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
bad144(8),
boot(8S)
.SH AUTHOR
Helge Skrivervik
