.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: edquota.8 1.6 88/08/16 $
.\" Copyright (c) 1983 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	@(#)edquota.8	6.2 (Berkeley) 5/19/86
.\"
.\" .TH EDQUOTA 8 "May 19, 1986"
.\" .UC 5
.TH EDQUOTA 8  "\*(V)" "5BSD"
.SH NAME
edquota \- edit user quotas
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/etc/edquota
[
.B \-p
.I proto-user
]
.IR users ...
.LP
.B /usr/etc/edquota
.B \-t
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Edquota
is a quota editor.  One or more user login names or IDs
may be specified on the command line.
A temporary file
with an ASCII representation of current
disk quotas is created for each user and an editor is
invoked on the file.  New quotas can be added and
existing quotas can be changed.
Upon
leaving the editor,
.I edquota
reads the temporary file and modifies the binary
quota files to reflect the changes.
.PP
The editor invoked is 
.IR vi (1)
unless the environment variable EDITOR specifies otherwise.
.PP
Only the super-user may edit quotas.
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.TP 10
.B \-p
Duplicate the quotas of the prototypical user
specified for each user specified.  This is the normal
mechanism used to initialize quotas for groups
of users.
.TP 10
.B \-t
Edit the soft time limits for each filesystem.
If the time limits are zero, the default time limits
are used.
The default time limits are specified in the file
.I /usr/sys/conf/param.c.
These default limits may be changed by reconfiguring the kernel.  A time
unit of either sec(onds), min(utes), hour(s), day(s), week(s), or
month(s) must be supplied for each of the time limits.  Time limits are
printed in the greatest possible time unit such that the value is greater
than or equal to one.
.SH FILES
.DT
quotas		at the root of each filesystem with quotas
.br
/etc/fstab	has filesystem names and locations
.SH SEE ALSO
quota(1), quotactl(2), quotacheck(8), quotaon(8), repquota(8)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Various self-explanatory
messages about inaccessible files
.SH BUGS
The format of the temporary file is inscrutable.
