.\" $Copyright: $
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
."Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989 
."Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
." 
."This software is furnished under a license and may be used
."only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
."inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
."be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
."other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
."hereby transferred.
.V= $Header: fsck.8 1.8 1991/07/12 15:09:03 $
.de us
\\$1\l'|0\(ul'
..
.TH FSCK 8 "\*(V)" "7th Edition"
.SH NAME
fsck \- filesystem consistency check and interactive repair
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/fsck
.B \-p
[
filesystem ...
]
.br
.B /etc/fsck
[
.B \-b
block#
] [
.B \-c
] [
.B \-y
] [
.B \-n
] [
filesystem 
] ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B fsck
with the 
.B \-p
option preens (checks and repairs) a standard set of filesystems
or the specified filesystems.
It is normally used in the script
.B /etc/rc
during automatic reboot.
In this case
.B fsck
reads the table
.I /etc/fstab
to determine which filesystems to check.
It uses the information there to inspect groups of disks in parallel taking
maximum advantage of I/O overlap to check the filesystems
as quickly as possible.
To maximize I/O overlap, 
.B fsck
creates a list of partitions for each physical device to be checked.
.B fsck
tries to keep one instance of
.B fsck
active on one partition of each
physical device to be checked.
When one partition on a physical device has completed 
.BR fsck ,
another
partition on that device is started immediately.
.PP
The system allows a restricted class of inconsistencies
unless hardware or software failures intervene.
These inconsistencies are limited to the following:
.IP
Unreferenced inodes
.ns
.IP
Link counts in inodes too large
.ns
.IP
Missing blocks in the free list
.ns
.IP
Blocks in the free list also in files
.ns
.IP
Counts in the superblock wrong
.PP
These are the only inconsistencies which
.B fsck
with the
.B \-p
option will correct.  If it encounters other inconsistencies, it exits
with an abnormal return status and an automatic reboot then fails.
For each corrected inconsistency, one or more lines are printed
identifying the filesystem on which the correction will take place
and the nature of the correction.  After successfully correcting a filesystem,
.B fsck
prints the number of files on that filesystem, the number of
used and free blocks, and the percentage of fragmentation.
.PP
Without the
.B \-p
option,
.B fsck
audits and interactively repairs inconsistent conditions for filesystems. 
If the filesystem is inconsistent, the operator is prompted for agreement
before each correction is attempted.
Note that a number of the corrective actions which cannot be fixed
under the
.B \-p
option result in some loss of data.
The amount and severity of data lost can
be determined from the diagnostic output.
The default action for each consistency correction
is to wait for the operator to respond \f(CWyes\fP or \f(CWno\fP.
If the operator does not have write permission, 
.B fsck
defaults to the 
.B \-n
option.
.PP
.B fsck
has more consistency checks than
its predecessors
.BR "check, dcheck, fcheck, " "and" " icheck"
combined.
.PP
The following options can be specified with
.BR fsck :
.TP 6
.B \-b
Use the block specified immediately after the flag as
the superblock for the filesystem.  Block 32 is always
an alternate superblock.
.TP 6
.B  \-y
Assume a \f(CWyes\f1 response to all questions asked by 
.BR fsck .
This should be used with great caution as this allows 
.B fsck
to continue after essentially unlimited trouble has been encountered.
.TP 6
.B  \-n
Assume a \f(CWno\f1 response to all questions asked by 
.B fsck;
do not open the filesystem for writing.
.TP 6
.B  \-c
Convert the files system to the new (dynamic table) format,
if it is in the old (static table) format.
If the file system is in the new format,
convert it to the old format provided the old format
can support the filesystem configuration.
In interactive mode,
.B fsck
lists the direction the conversion is to be made
and asks whether the conversion should be done.
If a negative answer is given,
no further operations are done on the filesystem.
With the 
.B \-p
option,
the direction of the conversion is listed and done if
possible without user interaction.
Conversion with
.B \-p
is best used when all the file systems
are being converted at once.
The format of a file system can be determined from the
first line of output from 
.BR dumpfs (8).
.PP
If no filesystems are given to 
.BR fsck ,
a default list of filesystems is read from
the file
.IR /etc/fstab .
.PP
.ne 10
Inconsistencies checked are as follows:
.TP 6
1.
Blocks claimed by more than one inode or the free list.
.br
.ns
.TP 6
2.
Blocks claimed by an inode or the free list outside the range of the filesystem.
.br
.ns
.TP 6
3.
Incorrect link counts.
.br
.ns
.TP 6
4.
Size checks:
.br
.ns
.IP "" 12
Directory size not of proper format.
.br
.ns
.TP 6
5.
Bad inode format.
.br
.ns
.TP 6
6.
Blocks not accounted for anywhere.
.br
.ns
.TP 6
7.
Directory checks:
.br
.ns
.IP "" 12
File pointing to unallocated inode.
.br
Inode number out of range.
.br
.br
.ns
.TP 6
8.
Superblock checks:
.br
.br
.ns
.IP "" 12
More blocks for inodes than there are in the filesystem.
.br
.br
.ns
.TP 6
9.
Bad free block list format.
.br
.br
.ns
.TP 6
10.
Total free block and/or free inode count incorrect.
.PP
Orphaned files and directories (allocated but unreferenced) are,
with the operator's agreement, reconnected by
placing them in the 
.I lost+found
directory.
The name assigned is the inode number. If the
.I lost+found
directory does not exist, it is created.
If there is insufficient space in
.I lost+found,
its size is increased.
.PP
Checking the raw device is almost always faster.
.SH FILES
.TP 15
/etc/fstab
Contains default list of filesystems to check
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The diagnostics produced by 
.B fsck
are intended to be self-explanatory.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
crash(8),
dumpfs(8),
mkfs(8),
fs(5),
fstab(5)
