.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: getty.8 1.10 91/01/21 $
.TH GETTY 8 "\*(V)" "4BSD"
.SH NAME
getty  \- set terminal mode
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/getty
[ type ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Getty
attempts to adapt the system to the type of terminal being used.
.B Getty
is called by
.BR  init (8)
immediately after making a connection.
.B Init
first reads the entry in the
.I /etc/ttys
file for the terminal line being opened
and then calls
.BR getty ,
passing the second character in the entry as an argument.
.B Getty
uses this character to select an entry from the
.I /etc/gettytab
file.
This entry describes characteristics of the terminal,
including its baud rate.
If there is no argument or no such table, the
default
table is used.
If there is no
.I /etc/gettytab
file,
a set of system defaults is used.
.PP
If indicated by the table located,
.B getty
will clear the terminal screen,
print a banner heading,
and prompt for a login name.
Usually either the banner or the login prompt will include
the system hostname.
Then the user's name is read, one character at a time.
If a null character is received, it is assumed to be the result
of the user having pushed the break (interrupt) key.
The speed is usually 
changed and the login is typed again;
a second break changes the speed again and the login
is typed once more.
Successive break characters cycle through the
same standard set of speeds.
.PP
The user's name is terminated by a newline or
carriage-return character.
The latter results in the system being set to
treat carriage returns appropriately (see
.BR  tty (4)).
.PP
The user's name is scanned to see if
it contains any lowercase alphabetic characters; if not,
and if the name is nonempty, the
system is told to map any future uppercase characters
into the corresponding lowercase characters.
.PP
Finally, login is called with the user's name as argument.
.PP
Most of the default actions of
.B getty
can be circumvented, or modified, by a suitable
.I gettytab
table.
.PP
.B Getty
can be set to time out after an interval;
if the login name is not entered within a reasonable 
amount of time, the dial-up lines will hang up.
.SH FILES
/etc/gettytab
.SH "SEE ALSO"
gettytab(5), init(8), login(1), ioctl(2), tty(4), ttys(5)
.br
.I "DYNIX System Administration Guide"
.SH BUGS
Currently, the format of
.I /etc/ttys
limits the permitted table names to a single character;
this should be expanded.
.PP
.I /etc/ttys
should be replaced completely.
