.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: halt.8 1.10 90/07/23 $
.TH HALT 8 "\*(V)" "4BSD"
.SH NAME
halt \- stop the processor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/halt
[
.B \-n
]
[
.B \-q
]
[
.B \-y
]
[
.B \-l
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B halt
command stops all but one processor, runs the command script
.B rc.shutdown
with the
argument
.IR  halt ,
executes a
.B sync
system call, and then stops
the remaining processor.
The machine does not reboot,
even if auto-reboot mode is selected on the front panel.
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.TP
.B \-q
Halt quickly without executing the shutdown script.  This option is
not recommended except in an emergency.
.TP
.B \-n
Skip the
.B sync
before halting.  The
.B \-q
option should be used with
.B \-n
if the
.B rc.shutdown
script runs commands that 
.I sync
the disks (such as
.BR umount (8)).
.TP
.B \-y
Force the system to halt from a dialup.
.TP
.B \-l
.B Halt
normally logs the halt using
.BR syslog (8).
This action is inhibited if the
.B \-l 
option is present.
.PP
.B Halt
places a shutdown record in the login accounting file
.I /usr/adm/wtmp
unless the
.B \-n
or
.B \-q
options are present.
.SH FILES
.if n .ta 2i
.if t .ta 1.5i
.I "/etc/rc.shutdown	"
system shutdown script
.br
.I "/usr/adm/wtmp	"
login accounting file
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR fastboot (8),
.BR reboot (8),
.BR shutdown (8),
.BR syslogd (8),
.BR rc (8),
.BR sync (2)
.SH BUGS
The shutdown script should know not to 
.I sync
the disks when 
.B halt
is given the
.B -n
option.
