.\" $Copyright: $
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: ifconfig.8c 1.9 1991/08/06 23:01:25 $
.TH IFCONFIG 8C "\*(V)" "4BSD"
.SH NAME
ifconfig \- configure network interface parameters
.SH SYOPNSIS
.B /etc/ifconfig
interface
[
.I address
] [
.I parameters
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Ifconfig
is used to assign an address
to a network interface and/or configure
network interface parameters.
.I Ifconfig
must be used at boot time to define the network address
of each interface present on a machine; it may also be used at
a later time to redefine an interface's address.  The
.I interface
parameter is a string of the form ``name unit'', e.g. ``se0'', while
the address is either a host name present in the host name data
base, 
.IR hosts (5),
or an address expressed in the Internet standard
``dot notation''.
.PP
The following parameters may be set with 
.IR ifconfig :
.TP 15
.B up
Mark an interface ``up''. 
.TP 15
.B down
Mark an interface ``down''.  When an interface is
marked ``down'', the system will not attempt to
transmit messages through that interface. 
.TP 15
.B trailers
Enable the use of a ``trailer'' link level encapsulation when
sending (default).
If a network interface supports
.IR trailers ,
the system will, when possible, encapsulate outgoing
messages in a manner which minimizes the number of
memory to memory copy operations performed by the receiver.
.TP 15
.B \-trailers
Disable the use of a ``trailer'' link level encapsulation.
.TP 15
.B arp
Enable the use of the Address Resolution Protocol in mapping
between network level addresses and link level addresses (default). 
This is currently implemented for mapping between DARPA Internet
addresses and 10Mb/s Ethernet addresses.
.TP 15
.B \-arp
Disable the use of the Address Resolution Protocol.
Not possible when mixing vendors on the same Ethernet cable.
.TP 15
.BI netmask " mask"
(Inet only)
Specify how much of the address to reserve for subdividing
networks into sub-networks.
The mask includes the network part of the local address
and the subnet part, which is taken from the host field of the address.
The mask can be specified as a single hexadecimal number
with a leading 0x, with a dot-notation Internet address,
or with a pseudo-network name listed in the network table
.IR networks (5).
The mask contains 1's for the bit positions in the 32-bit address
which are to be used for the network and subnet parts,
and 0's for the host part.
The mask should contain at least the standard network portion,
and the subnet field should be contiguous with the network
portion.
.TP 15
.B broadcast
(Inet only)
Specify the address to use to represent broadcasts to the
network.
The default broadcast address is the address with a host part of all 0's.
.TP 15
.BI mtu \0ddd
Set the maximum transfer unit on this interface to
.I ddd
(a decimal number).
.PP
.I Ifconfig
displays the current configuration for a network interface
when no optional parameters are supplied.
.PP
Only the super-user may modify the configuration of a network interface.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Messages indicating the specified interface does not exist, the
requested address is unknown, the user is not privileged and
tried to alter an interface's configuration.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
netstat(1),
intro(4N),
rc(8)
