.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: installboot.8 1.1 90/02/14 $
.\" @(#)shutdown.8 1.1 85/12/28 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.TH INSTALLBOOT 8 "\*(V)" "4BSD"
.SH NAME
installboot \- installs a boot program on a disk
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/installboot
disk
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B installboot
.\" either 
determines the type of bootstrap that should be installed on
.I disk
and then installs the proper bootstrap in the bootstrap area
of the disk.
.\"or installs the system controller firmware in the firmware area of the disk.
.PP
The
.I disk
argument does not need to be a special file in
.IR /dev ,
but can simply be the controller type concatenated with
the disk number (e.g.,
.BR sd0 ).
\f3installboot\fP uses the \f2disk\fP argument to determine the disk type. 
.PP
For disks booting from the
.SM SCED,
\f3installboot\fP reads the
.SM VTOC
from the disk and searches for a boot partition.
(This is a partition of type
.SM
.B V_BOOT,
as defined in
.IR /usr/include/sys/vtoc.h .)
\f3installboot\fP then opens the first boot partition and writes the
proper bootstrap to it.
The bootstrap is taken from \f2/stand/boot\f3\s-1XX\s0\f1_v, where
.SM
.B XX
corresponds to the disk controller name.
If no
.SM VTOC
is present on the disk, \f3installboot\fP will use the `c' partition and
takes the bootstrap from \f2/stand/boot\f3\s-1XX\s0\f1, where
.SM
.B XX
corresponds to the disk controller name.
.PP
.\"For disks booting from the
.\".SM SSM,
.\"\f3installboot\fP reads the
.\".SM VTOC
.\"from the disk and searches for a firmware partition.
.\"(This is a partition of type
.\".SM
.\".B V_FW,
.\"as defined in
.\".IR /usr/include/sys/vtoc.h .)
.\"\f3installboot\fP then opens the first firmware partition and writes the
.\"firmware to it.
.\"The firmware is taken from \f2/ssm/fw/lvl2\f1.
.PP
If the disk on which the bootstrap 
.\" or firmware 
is installed does not have a 
.SM VTOC
present, one can be added by using \f3mkvtoc\f1(1M).
There should be only one partition of type
.SM
.B V_BOOT
and it should cover the bootstrap area for this particular disk.
.\"Also, there should be at most one partition of type
.\".SM
.\".B V_FW
.\"and it should be large enough to hold the system controller firmware.
.SH EXAMPLES
The following line will install a SCED bootstrap on
.B zd0.
.PP
.RS
\f3installboot  zd0\fP
.RE
.SH FILES
/stand/boot??		SCED compatibility boot programs
.br
/stand/boot??_v		SCED VTOC boot programs
.\".br
.\"/ssm/fw/lvl2		SSM Level 2 Firmware
.SH SEE ALSO
mkvtoc(8),
prtvtoc(8),
vtoc(4)
