.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: makedev.8 1.7 90/11/02 $
.TH MAKEDEV 8 "\*(V)" "4BSD/DYNIX"
.SH NAME
makedev \- make system special files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /dev/MAKEDEV 
.IR device ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I MAKEDEV
is a shell script normally used to install
special files.  It resides in the 
.I /dev
directory, as this is the normal location of special files.
Arguments to 
.I MAKEDEV
are usually of the form
.IR device-name ?
where
.I device-name
is one of the supported devices listed in section 4 of the
manual and ``?'' is a logical unit number (0-9).  A few
special arguments create assorted collections of devices and are
listed below.
.TP
.B std
Create the
.I standard
devices for the system; that is,
/dev/console, /dev/ttyc0, /dev/ttyc1,
/dev/tty,
/dev/mem, /dev/kmem,
/dev/null,
/dev/kMWmem, /dev/kMBmem,
/dev/drum,
/dev/smem0,
/dev/ctape0, /dev/ctape8,
/dev/mtape0, /dev/mtape8.
.TP
.B local
Create those devices specific to the local site.  This
request causes the shell file 
.I /dev/MAKEDEV.local
to be executed.  Site specific commands, such as those
used to setup dialup lines as ``ttyd?'' should be included
in this file.
.PP
Since all devices are created using 
.IR mknod (8),
this shell script is useful only to the super-user.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Either self-explanatory, or generated by one of the programs
called from the script.  Use ``sh -x MAKEDEV'' in case of
trouble.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
intro(4),
config(8),
mknod(8)
