.\" $Copyright:	$
.\"Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\"Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\"This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\"only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\"inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\"be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\"other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\"hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: mirror.8 1.1 89/09/29 $
.TH MIRROR 8 "\*(V)" "DYNIX"
.SH NAME
mirror, unmirror \- activate and deactivate disk mirrors
.SH SYNOPSIS
.\"
.\" without formatting codes, first line would look like:
.\"
.\" /etc/mirror mirror_name [-l|-b] unit0 [-l|-b] unit1 [-s size] [-r] [-f]
.\"
.B /etc/mirror
.I mirror_name
.RB [ \-l " | " \-b ] 
.I unit0
.RB [ \-l " | " \-b ] 
.I unit1
.RB [ \-s
.IR size ]
.RB [ \-r ]
.RB [ \-f ]
.br
.\"
.\" without formatting codes, second line would look like:
.\"
.\" /etc/mirror mirror_name unit0 -d
.\"
.B /etc/mirror 
.I "mirror_name unit0"
.B \-d
.br
.\"
.\" without formatting codes, third line would look like:
.\"
.\" /etc/mirror -a
.\"
.B "/etc/mirror \-a"
.br
.\"
.\" without formatting codes, fourth line would look like:
.\"
.\" /etc/mirror
.\"
.B /etc/mirror
.PP
.\"
.\" without formatting codes, fifth line would look like:
.\"
.\" /etc/unmirror mirror_name [mirror_name ...]
.\"
.BI /etc/unmirror
.RI [ "mirror_name ..." ]
.br
.\"
.\" without formatting codes, sixth line would look like:
.\" /etc/unmirror -a
.B "/etc/unmirror \-a"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
Disk mirroring (also known as shadowing) is the continuous, automatic
maintenance of two separate copies of a given set of data.  The purpose
of mirroring is to provide continued access to a copy of the data in the
event that a disk or disk controller fails.  The full benefits of mirroring
require that the two data copies be stored on separate disk drives
connected to separate disk controllers.
.PP
A disk mirror is a logical disk device that appears just like a single disk
partition to users and applications.  Like a disk partition, a disk mirror
can be used to store either a filesystem or raw data.
.PP
.B "Activating Mirrors"
.PP
To activate an existing disk mirror, or to create a new one, you invoke the
.B mirror
command in the first form shown in the ``Synopsis'' section.
This tells the system that the two disk partitions given as
arguments are copies of the same set of data and are to be accessed
together through the device name argument
.I mirror_name .
(Refer to the
.BR mr (4)
man page for details of the
.B mr
mirror device driver.)
The command checks the named mirror to be sure that it is unused, that the
partitions (``mirror units'') both have valid mirror labels, and that they
are from the same mirror.  If so, and if the time stamps in the two labels
do not agree,
.B mirror
considers the unit with the newer time the reference and copies its contents
over the other unit. Then it starts mirroring data onto the units.
.PP
If a unit has a valid label, but the
modification time on its raw device (from the inode) is more recent than the
label time,
.B mirror
considers the unit to be out of date.
If one unit is out of date,
.B mirror
uses the other as the reference.  If both units are out of date,
.B mirror
behaves as if neither label is valid.
.PP
Note that the units need to be from the same mirror as each other, but
.I not
necessarily from the same mirror that is specified in the current
mirror command (for example, the units from ``mr0'' could be remirrored
as ``mr5'').
.PP
If one or both of the units are unlabeled, such as when forming a new
mirror or replacing one of the units of an old one, you must specify
the 
.B \-l
(label) option in front of that unit, otherwise an error is printed
and the operation is aborted.  Note that the
.B \-l
option allows
.B mirror
to label a unit, but does not require it to do so.  In order to force
a unit to be relabeled, you must invalidate the existing label on the
unit using the command
.BR mrinval .
.PP
If both units are unlabeled, the first one specified is the reference and
.B mirror
copies it over the other.  This is the only case where the order
of the mirror units is important;  in subsequent
.B mirror
commands, a unit that was
created as
.I unit0
can be given as either
.I unit0
or
.I unit1
so long as the pair of units specified were last mirrored together.
.PP
If both units have valid mirror unit labels, but they do not match (in other
words, they are from different mirrors), and you intend that they now be
in the same mirror, you must specify 
.B \-l
in front of the unit to relabel.  The
other becomes the reference and is copied over the relabeled one.
.PP
If you are making a new mirror, you can specify that it is to be a
.I raw-type
mirror by using the
.B \-r
option.  You can similarly specify a 
.I filesystem-type
mirror by using the
.B \-f
option.  If neither is specified, a filesystem-type mirror is created.
Refer to the following
``Restrictions''
and
``Special Considerations''
sections for additional details of mirror types.
.PP
If you are making a new mirror, you can specify a smaller size than this
utility would ordinarily use with the 
.B \-s 
.I size
option.  The 
.I size
is
specified in disk blocks. If the size you specify is larger than 
.B mirror
would normally use (which is the size of the smaller partition), an
advisory message is printed and your size is ignored.
.PP
If you are making a new mirror and the two units do not have the same size,
an advisory message is printed and the smaller size is used.
.PP
If you want to change the size or type of a mirror, you must first
invalidate the labels on both mirror units (using the command
.BR mrinval ).
If you change the type of a mirror, the
data stored on it will appear to move by one block;
if your applications cannot be reconfigured to compensate for this,
make a backup of the data prior to the change, and write it back on
afterward.
.PP
The size of each partition is determined by attempting reads on the
disk in a binary search pattern.
.PP
Before it does any copying, this utility verifies that the units involved in
the copy are not involved in other mirrors and are not in the kernel mount
table. 
.PP
If you attempt to label a partition that currently has a
bootstrap program on it, 
.B mirror 
complains unless you use
.B \-b
instead of
.BR \-l .
This option enables
.B mirror
to overwrite the bootstrap.
.B Mirror
will not allow 
.B \-b
to be specified except where it is needed.
.PP
.B "Activating a Disabled (Single-Unit) Mirror"
.PP
The
.B \-d
option to
.B mirror
(the second form shown in the ``Synopsis'' section) tells the
system that the single mirror unit specified is to be
accessed through the mirror device specified, but not mirrored to any
other unit.  This capability is provided to let you access data on one
unit of a
.I damaged
mirror (while the mirror's other unit is out of service).
Refer to the
``Special Considerations''
section of this man page for more information.
A new mirror cannot be created with a single unit.
.PP
.B "Activating a Group of Mirrors"
.PP
When the 
.B \-a
option is used (the third form shown in the ``Synopsis'' section),
.B mirror
tries to activate all mirrors listed in the file
.IR /etc/mrtab ,
even if some of the mirrors cannot be activated.
This mirror command is typically invoked by the command script
.B /etc/rc
at system boot time (refer to
the ``Special Considerations''
section of this man page for more information).
The
.B "mirror \-a"
command
.I never
resynchronizes units; instead, the mirroring
operation fails on the mirrors that require additional attention.
.B Mirror
has a zero exit status only if all mirrors listed in
.I /etc/mrtab
were activated without errors.
.PP
.B "Listing Mirrors' Status"
.PP
When
.B mirror
is invoked without an argument (the final
form of
.B mirror
shown in the ``Synopsis'' section),
it outputs status information for all mirrors
configured into the system.
To provide this listing, 
.B mirror
must be able to find at least one valid raw mirror device in
.I /dev
that is readable.  
For each mirror, the mirror number, the name of
the mirror in
.I /dev
(if the inode exists), and the mirror state is printed.  The state is one of 
.IR active ,
.IR inactive ,
.IR shutdown ,
or
.IR changing .
For active mirrors, the mirror type
.RI ( fs
for filesystem-type mirrors and
.I raw
for raw-type mirrors)
and the units that comprise the mirror are printed,
as well as whether each unit is
.I OK 
or
.IR BAD .
The number of outstanding opens, as the device
driver sees them, is also printed for each mirror.  There is
always one additional open of one mirror (usually
.IR mr0 )
caused by
.B mirror
itself.
.PP
.B "Deactivating Mirrors"
.PP
The
.B unmirror
command attempts to deactivate mirror(s) formed by a previous
.B mirror
command.  When deactivated, a mirror device can no longer be accessed
by the 
.B mr
driver. If the mirror is in use, either because it is opened
by a user process or because it is mounted,
.B unmirror
complains that the mirror is busy.  Multiple mirrors may be specified with
a single command.  
.B Unmirror
also complains if one of the mirrors specified is not currently
mirroring. 
.PP
.B "Deactivating All Mirrors"
.PP
When invoked with the
.B \-a
option,
.B unmirror
tries to deactivate all mirrors listed in
.IR /etc/mrtab ,
then tries to deactivate all mirrors still active in the system.
(Note that it only checks the
.I /dev
directory for these.)  Used in this form,
.B unmirror
does not complain about inactive mirrors that it finds.
.SH EXAMPLES
/etc/mirror
.br
.I "reports status of all mirrors"
.sp
/etc/mirror  /dev/mr0  \-l  /dev/zd1g  \-l  /dev/zd4g  \-f
.br
.I "creates and activates a filesystem-type mirror using zd1g as the reference"
.sp
/etc/mirror  /dev/mr0  \-b  /dev/zd1h  \-l  /dev/zd4g  \-s  100000  \-r
.br
.I "creates and activates a raw-type (renumbered blocks) mirror, overwrites"
.I "a bootstrap on unit0, and limits size to 100,000 disk blocks"
.sp
/etc/mirror  /dev/mr0  /dev/zd1g  /dev/zd4g
.br
.I "activates an existing mirror"
.sp
/etc/mirror \-a
.br
.I "attempts to activate all mirrors listed in /etc/mrtab"
.sp
/etc/unmirror  /dev/mr0  /dev/mr1  /dev/mr2
.br
.I "deactivates mirrors mr0, mr1, and mr2
.sp
/etc/unmirror  \-a
.br
.I "deactivates all mirrors in /etc/mrtab and /dev"
.sp
/etc/mount  /db1  /dev/mr0
.br
.I "mounts mirrored filesystem ``/db1''"
.SH RESTRICTIONS
The bootstrap program resides on the first few blocks on disks any disks
that can boot the operating system (unneeded bootstrap programs may
exist on other disks as well.)
A mirror unit's label also needs to occupy the first block of its partition.
For this reason, you cannot have a mirror unit on a partition that
starts at the front of a disk from which you plan to boot the operating
system.  This means that the standard partitions 
.IR c ,
.IR d ,
.IR f ,
and
.I h
on DCC (Dual Channel Disk Controller) disks that must be bootable
cannot be used for disk mirrors.
.PP
Mirrors are supported only on Symmetry systems and DCC disks.
.PP
Mirrors are designed to protect against controller, drive, and media failure
only.  They are not designed to protect against system crashes (although they
may increase the odds of retrieving your data if one occurs).  Consequently,
it is recommended that each mirror's units be located on
different physical disks.  It is better if the disks are on
separate DCC channels, and better still if they are on separate DCCs.
.PP
Mirroring uses the first disk block on each mirror unit for the
mirror label.  User applications may not read or write this block
through the mirror.  If the mirror is to be used for a filesystem,
or by an application that does not read or write block 0,
it can be a filesystem-type mirror (specified by default and with the
.B \-f
option).  On this type of mirror, the first accessible block is block 1,
and the number of the last block is equal to the mirror size
(specified explicitly or implicitly) minus 1.
.PP
Programs that read or write block 0 must use a raw-type mirror.
This type of mirror provides a block 0 by shifting all I/O to its units
by one block. The last block number on a raw-type mirror is equal to
the mirror size (specified explicitly or implicitly) minus 2. 
.PP
Note that the units of a raw-type mirror, unlike units of a filesystem-type
mirror, have each block offset by one.  Thus, if a filesystem is
built on a filesystem-type mirror and one unit is lost, all the usual file
system tools can be used directly on the disk partition containing
the surviving unit. (Make sure you do this
.I only
when the mirror is deactivated.) If a filesystem is built on a raw-type
mirror and one unit is lost, the tools must be used through
the mirror device.  (The 
.B "\-d"
option to
.B "mirror"
lets you activate a mirror with only one unit.)
.SH SPECIAL CONSIDERATIONS
.B "Block 0 on filesystem-type mirrors not accessible."
When performing direct (non-filesystem) I/O on a
.I filesystem-type
mirror (one not created with the
.B \-r
option
to
.BR mirror ),
the user may neither read nor write the first block (block 0)
of the mirror disk, which is the mirror label area.
If your applications require access
to block 0, create the mirror using the
.B \-r
option to create a 
.I raw-type
mirror.  The first block of the raw-type mirror still contains the
label, but the accessible blocks following it are renumbered to start
with block 0.
.PP
.B "Using newfs."
This command expects to see a partition letter at the end of a device
specification argument.  A mirror device name normally has no partition letter.
There are two workarounds for this.
.PP
You can invoke
.B newfs
on one of the partitions
that is to be a mirror unit before creating the mirror.  If you
then make this partition the reference
.RI ( unit0 ),
.B mirror
copies the filesystem to the other unit.  (If the partitions are of different
sizes, be sure to make the filesystem on the smaller of the two.)
.PP
The alternative method is to create a mirror with units that do not yet have
filesystems, and, using a name that
.I does
have a (otherwise meaningless) partition letter,
create a link to the mirror device inode.
Now you can run
.B newfs
using the link name as its device argument.  For example, you
might enter the following commands:
.PP
.RS
/etc/mirror  /dev/mr0  \-l  /dev/zd1c  \-l  /dev/zd5c  \-f
.br
ln  /dev/mr0  /dev/mr0c
.br
/etc/newfs  /dev/mr0c cm2344k
.RE
.PP
This setup allows
.B newfs
(and any other programs that expect a partition letter) to operate on
the mirror device rather than on the partitions containing the mirror's
units.
.PP
.B "Both block and raw device inodes required in /dev."
You must have both the raw- and
block-device inodes for each mirror in
.I /dev
even if you will only use the mirror to store a filesystem.  This
is because mirroring is started with an
.BR ioctl ,
(refer to the
.BR ioctl (2)
man page for details) which requires a raw device.
.PP
.B "Mirror activation during reboot."
If you want mirrors to be automatically activated whenever the system
is booted, put the mirror configuration in the file
.I /etc/mrtab.  
Note that if the system crashes, the 
.B "mirror \-a" 
command invoked by
.B /etc/rc
cannot activate the mirrors listed in
.IR /etc/mrtab ,
the system does
.I not
come up to multiuser operation, and you must either
resynchronize the mirrors manually or delete them from
.IR /etc/mrtab .
Then make sure to run
.B fsck
on all filesystems (mirrored and nonmirrored) before booting to multiuser
operation.
.PP
.B "Accessing damaged mirrors."
When one unit of a mirror fails, the mirror continues to run on the
good unit.  If the faulty mirror unit is to be out of service for an
unacceptably long period of time and you do not have a spare partition
to use as a new second unit, you can continue to use the remaining mirror
unit alone.
.PP
.in +1i
.ll -1i
.ce 1
CAUTION
.I "When operating a disk mirror with a single mirror unit, you do "
.B NOT
.I "get the data protection benefits of mirroring."
.I "Repair or replace the damaged mirror unit as soon as possible."
.PP
If the mirror is currently inactive, you can reactivate it with the
single good unit using the
.B \-d
option to
.BR mirror .
In the case
of a filesystem-type mirror, the remaining good unit may also be used directly
as a standard disk partition.  You must relabel the unit (using the
.B \-l
option to
.BR mirror )
when it comes time to become part of a mirror again.
In the case of a raw-type
mirror, you must access the remaining unit as a disabled mirror device
(using the
.B \-d
option to
.BR mirror ),
rather than accessing the disk partition directly.
.PP
You cannot activate a disabled-unit mirror using 
.BR "mirror \-a" .
This means that the system will not boot to multiuser operation
with a disabled
mirror present unless you first delete that mirror's entry in the file
.I /etc/mrtab.
.in -1i
.ll +1i
.SH FILES
.if n .ta 1.5i
.if t .ta 1.25i
.IR /dev/ [ r ] "mr*	"
mirrors
.br
.IR /dev/ [ r ] "zd*	"
mirrorable disk partitions
.br
.IR "/etc/mrtab	"
fixed mirror table
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ioctl (2),
.BR mr (4),
.BR zd (4),
.BR mrtab (5),
.BR mrinval (8),
.BR rc (8)
