.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
."Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989 
."Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
." 
."This software is furnished under a license and may be used
."only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
."inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
."be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
."other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
."hereby transferred.
.\"
...
.V= $Header: mkfs.8 1.6 90/01/24 $
.TH MKFS 8 "\*(V)" "7th Edition"
.SH NAME
mkfs \- construct a filesystem
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/mkfs
special size
[ nsect
[ ntrack
[ blksize
[ fragsize
[ ncpg
[ minfree
[ rps
[ nbpi ] ] ] ] ] ] ] ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B mkfs
constructs a filesystem
by writing on the special file
.IR special .
.B mkfs
is actually a compatibility interface to the
.BR newfs (8)
command; in general the
.BR newfs (8)
is preferred.
The numeric size specifies the number of sectors in the filesystem.
.B mkfs
builds a filesystem with a root directory;
.B mkfs
no longer builds a
.I lost+found
directory, as the
.BR fsck (8)
command is now capable of creating this when needed.
The number of inodes is calculated as a function
of the filesystem size.
.PP
The following optional arguments allow finer control over the
parameters of the filesystem:
.TP 12
.B nsect
Specifies the number of sectors per track on the disk.
.TP 12
.B ntrack
Specifies the number of tracks per cylinder on the disk.
.TP 12
.B blksize
Gives the primary block size for files on the filesystem.
It must be a power of two,
selected from 4096 or 8192.
.TP 12
.B fragsize
Gives the fragment size for files on the filesystem.
Represents the smallest amount of disk space
that will be allocated to a file.
It must be a power of two,
selected from the range 512 to 8192.
.TP 12
.B ncpg
Specifies the number of disk cylinders per cylinder group.
.TP 12
.B minfree
Specifies the minimum percentage of free disk space allowed.
Once the filesystem capacity reaches this threshold,
only the superuser is allowed to allocate disk blocks.
The default value is 10%.
.TP 12
.B rps
Specifies the number of revolutions per second,
if a disk does not revolve at 60 revolutions per second.
.TP 12
.B nbpi
Specifies the number of bytes per inode,
if a filesystem will have more or less
than the average number of files.
Used to increase or decrease the number of inodes that are created.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
newfs(8),
fsck(8),
tunefs(8),
dir(5), fs(5) 
.SH BUGS
There should be some way to specify bad blocks.
