.\" $Copyright:	$
."Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989 
."Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
." 
."This software is furnished under a license and may be used
."only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
."inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
."be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
."other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
."hereby transferred.
.\"
...
.V= $Header: mkvtoc.8 1.5 90/12/14 $
.TH MKVTOC 8 "\*(V)" "7th Edition"
.SH NAME
mkvtoc \- create VTOC on disks
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/mkvtoc
[
.B \-d
arguments ] 
[
.B \-g
] [
.B \-f
] [
.B \-s
datafile
] disk disktype
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B mkvtoc\^
creates the
VTOC (volume table of contents) on disks.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-d
Permits change to a single partition.
\f2argument\f1s consist of a colon-separated list of
entries similar to a line from \f2datafile\f1 (described below).
.TP
.B \-g
The VTOC is initialized and the
disk geometry is set from the
file
\f3/etc/diskinfo/\f2disktype\f3.geom\f1.
This option must be supplied if the disk does not
have a VTOC present.
.TP
.B \-f
Allow partitions of type
.B \s-1V_RESERVED\s0
to be changed.  Use of this option is strongly
discouraged.
.TP
.B \-s
The VTOC is populated according to a
.I datafile\^
created by the user.  The
.I datafile\^
format is described below.
.PP
If no options are given, the VTOC
is populated according to the specification of the default files 
in directory
.I /etc/vtoc\^ .
The file \f2/etc/vtoc/disktype.disk\f1 is used 
if it exists and if \f2disktype\f1 and \f2 disk\f1
were supplied on the command line. 
Otherwise, two files are tried in turn:  first, 
\f2/etc/vtoc/disktype.controller\f1, where 
\f2controller\f1 is the disk name without unit number, and
then \f2/etc/vtoc/disktype\f1.
For example, for a 792\(hymegabyte
disk, 
the \f2disktype\f1 specific would be \f3m2382k\f1 on zd0.
Files would be tried in the following order:  first, \/etc/vtoc/m2383k.zd0,
next, \f2/etc/vtoc/m2382k.zd\f1, and, last, \f2/etc/vtoc/m2582k\f1.

This hierarchy of possibilities allows a system adminstrator
to keep custom VTOC files corresponding to the various devices
on the system without having to hand-override the VTOC description
filename each time
.I mkvtoc
is run.
.PP
The
.I disk
on which the VTOC is installed must be specified as an unpartitioned
disk name such as
.B /dev/rzd0
or
.B /dev/rsd1.
.PP
The 
.I datafile\^
contains one specification line for each partition, starting with partition 0.  
Lines beginning with an asterisk are treated as comments.
A specification line is composed of position-dependent entries
separated by white space. 
A line has the following format:
.PP
.RS
partition  type  starting_sector  size_in_sectors  block_size frag_size
.RE
.PP
The entries have the following values:
.PP
.TP 14
.I partition
The partition number: 0-254.
.TP
.I type 
The partition type: a decimal number.  The following are valid types:
V_NOPART: 0, V_RAW: 1, V_BOOT: 2, V_RESERVED: 3, V_FW: 4, V_DIAG: 5.
.TP
.I starting sector
The sector number on which the partition starts. 
.TP
.I size in sectors
The number of sectors occupied by the partition.
.bP
.PP
The partition types have the following meanings:
.TP 14
.B \s-1V_NOPART\s0
This partition number does not represent valid, usable disk space.
A partition may be marked as
.B \s-1V_NOPART\s0
to serve as a placeholder.  Note that if the datafile contains
less than the maximum possible number of partitions, the
remainder are marked
.B \s-1V_NOPART\s0 .
.TP
.B \s-1V_RAW\s0
This is a regular partition.
.TP
.B \s-1V_BOOT\s0
This is an area of disk reserved for a bootstrap.  As such, filesystems
should not be mounted here.  
.B \s-1V_BOOT\s0
is a descriptive tag and has no functional difference from
.B \s-1V_RAW\s0 .
.TP
.B \s-1V_RESERVED\s0
This is an area of the disk reserved for some disktype-specific
purpose, such as bad block lists, diagnostic tracks, or the VTOC itself.
Partitions of type
.B \s-1V_RESERVED\s0
are treated differently than partitions of other types in that
they may not be changed via the
.B mkvtoc
command, unless the
.B \-f
flag is specified on the command line.
In general it is not wise to alter 
.B \s-1V_RESERVED\s0
partitions in any
way, since various parts of the system
depend on these disk sectors to be unchanged.
.TP
.B \s-1V_FW\s0
This is an area of disk reserved for system controller firmware.  As
such, filesystems should not be mounted here.  
.B \s-1V_FW\s0
is a descriptive tag and has no functional difference from
.B \s-1V_RAW\s0 .
.TP
.B \s-1V_DIAG\s0
This is an area of the disk reserved for dumping model D hardware scan and
cache data.  As such, filesystems should not be mounted here.
.B \s-1V_DIAG\s0
is also a descriptive tag and has no functional difference from
.B \s-1V_RAW\s0 .
.PP
A number of sanity checks are performed on the new
VTOC before it is written to disk.  For example, the
block size and fragment sizes are checked against system
norms and the total number of sectors in partitions are
checked to make sure they do not exceed the size of the disk.
In addition, if any two partitions have sectors which overlap, the
.B mkvtoc
command will fail.
.SH SEE ALSO
prtvtoc(8), rmvtoc(8)
.SH WARNINGS
If a disk which has not previously contained a VTOC has data present
in sectors 16 through 31, that data
will be overwritten by the VTOC.
