.\" $Copyright: $
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: monitor.8 1.9 1991/08/06 23:01:53 $
.TH MONITOR 8 "\*(V)" "DYNIX"
.SH NAME
monitor \- monitor system activity
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/etc/monitor
[
.BI \-c \ n
] [
.BI \-i \ n
] [
.BI \-p \ n
] [
.B \-t
] [
.B \-f
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Monitor
displays various measures of system activity.
The first portion of the display is a set of bar graphs of processor activity,
one for each processor plus a graph for the system labeled ``Total''.
Each bar indicates the percentage of time the respective processor was busy and
is composed of two symbols, `=' for system time and `-' for user time.
The rest of the display contains a number of user selectable groups of
system activity monitors.
To exit
.IR monitor ,
a return, linefeed, or the letter
.B q
may be typed.
A
.B ^L
(control-L) will cause the screen to be redrawn.
.PP
.IR Monitor 's
command-line options are as follows:
.TP
.BI \-c \ n
specifies of the number of columns to use for displaying
the processor bar graphs.
Valid choices for
.I n
are 1, 2, and 3.
.TP
.BI \-i \ n
specifies the length of the interval (in seconds) to sleep between updates
of the screen.  The default is 1.
.TP
.BI \-p \ n
If the
.I monitor
process is running with sufficient privileges,
it will ``affinity'' itself to processor
.IR n .
The default is processor 0.
(See
.IR tmp_affinity (2)).
.TP
.B \-t
specifies that terse activity monitor descriptions should be used.
This allows more information to fit on the screen.
.TP
.B \-f
indicates that two screens are to be used;
one for the processor graphs and one for the activity monitors.
While
.I monitor
is running, typing an
.B f
will flip between the two screens.
.PP
Activity monitors are as follows (labels in
.B \-t
format are given in parentheses):
.TP
.B
Total User Time (usr %)
Time the system spent in user mode
expressed as percent of one processor.
.TP
.B
Total System Time (sys %)
Time the system spent in system mode
expressed as percent of one processor.
.TP
.B
Total Time (tot %)
Sum of user and system time
expressed as percent of one processor.
.TP
.B
Number of Procs (procs)
Number of processes in the system
(occupied process table entries).
.TP
.B
Running Procs (on p)
Number of processes currently running on
a processor.
.TP
.B
Runnable Procs (runq)
Number of processes that are runnable and
waiting on the run queue to be dispatched
to a processor.
.TP
.B
Fast Wait (wait)
Number of processes that are waiting on
disk I/O, page I/O, or a kernel resource.
.TP
.B
Sleeping Procs (sleep)
Number of processes that are sleeping.
.TP
.B
Swapped Procs (swapped)
Number of processes that are swapped to disk.
.TP
.B
System Calls (sysc)
Number of system calls per second.
.TP
.B
Context Switches (csw)
Number of context switches per second.
.TP
.B
Interrupts (intr)
Number of interrupts per second.
.TP
.B
Traps (traps)
Number of traps per second.
.TP
.B
Forks (fork)
Number of forks per second.
.TP
.B
Vforks (vfork)
Number of vforks per second.
.TP
.B
Execs (exec)
Number of execs per second.
.TP
.B
Packets In (pkt in)
Number of packets received per second.
.TP
.B
Packets Out (pkt out)
Number of packets transmitted per second.
.TP
.B
Disk Transfers (dk xf)
Number of disk transfers per second.
.TP
.B
Disk KBytes (dk KB)
Number of kilobytes transferred per second.
.TP
.B
TTY Chars In (ttyin)
Number of characters received on TTY
lines per second.
.TP
.B
TTY Chars Out (ttyout)
Number of characters transmitted on TTY
lines per second.
.TP
.B
Page Faults (pf)
Number of page faults per second.
.TP
.B
Page Reclaims (pg rec)
Number of page reclaims from any free list
(minor faults) per second.
.TP
.B
Dirty Pg Recs (pgdrec)
Number of page reclaims from the dirty list
per second.
.TP
.B
Page Ins (pgin)
Number of page ins (major faults) per second.
.TP
.B
Pages Paged In (ppgin)
Number of pages paged in per second.
.TP
.B
Page Outs (pgout)
Number of page outs per second.
.TP
.B
Pages Paged Out (ppgout)
Number of pages paged out per second.
.TP
.B
Swap Ins (sw in)
Number of processes swapped in per second.
.TP
.B
Pages Swapped In (pswin)
Number of pages swapped in per second.
.TP
.B
Swap Outs (sw out)
Number of processes swapped out per second.
.TP
.B
Pages Swapped Out (pswout)
Number of pages swapped out per second.
.TP
.B
Deficit (deficit)
Virtual memory deficit in Kbytes
.TP
.B
Free Memory (free)
Free memory in Kbytes.
.TP
.B
Total Virtual Mem (tot vm)
Sum of virtual sizes of all processes.
.TP
.B
Active Virtual Mem (act vm)
Sum of virtual sizes of all processes that
have executed in the last 20 seconds.
.TP
.B
Total Real Mem (tot rm)
Sum of resident sizes of all processes.
.TP
.B
Active Real Mem (act rm)
Sum of resident sizes of all processes that
have executed in the last 20 seconds.
.TP
.B
FS Blk Reads (fs brd)
Number of actual disk reads initiated by the
file system.
.TP
.B
FS Blk Writes (fs bwt)
Number of actual disk writes initiated by the
file system.
.TP
.B
FS Read Hit (fs rdh)
Percentage of file system read requests that were
satisfied from the buffer cache.
.TP
.B
FS Write Hit (fs wth)
Percentage of file system write requests that
did not result in an actual disk write.
.TP
.B
Raw Reads (raw rd)
Number of raw device reads from all devices.
.TP
.B
Raw Writes (raw wt)
Number of raw device writes from all devices.
.TP
.B
Raw Read KB (raw rKB)
Number of kilobytes (KB) transferred via raw
device reads.
.TP
.B
Raw Write KB (raw wKB)
Number of kilobytes (KB) transferred via raw
device writes.
.TP
.B
Locks Used (lckcnt)
Number of record/file locks (see lockf(3C) or fcntl(2)) currently in use.
.TP
.B
Percent Locks Used (%locks)
The percentage of available record/file locks (see lockf(3C) or fcntl(2))
currently in use.
.TP
.B
Files Locked (filcnt)
Number of file headers currently in use (see lockf(3C) or fcntl(2)).
This may also be considered the number of locked files.
.TP
.B
Percent Files Used (%files)
The percentage of files headers currently in use
(see lockf(3C) or fcntl(2)).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
vmstat(1)
.SH BUGS
.I Monitor
samples dynamically changing data.
From time to time, some slight anomalies may appear.
The most obvious one is that occasionally,
the number of processes on processor will be greater than the
number of processors in the system.
