.\" $Copyright: $
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: mount.8 1.17 1991/08/06 23:01:59 $
.TH MOUNT 8 "\*(V)" "4BSD"
.\" @(#)mount.8 1.1 85/12/28 SMI; 
.SH NAME
mount, umount \- mount and dismount filesystems
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/mount
[
.B \-p
]
.br
.B /etc/mount
.BR \-a [ fv ]
[ 
.B \-t
.I type 
]
.br
.B /etc/mount
[
.B \-frv
]
[
.BI \-t " type"
]
[
.BI \-o " options"
]
.I fsname 
.I dir
.br
.B /etc/mount
[
.B \-vf
]
.IR fsname " | " dir
.LP
.B /etc/umount
[
.BI \-t " type"
]
[
.BI \-h " host"
]
.br
.B /etc/umount
.BR \-a [ v ]
.br
.B /etc/umount
[ 
.B \-v
]
.IR "" [ fsname " | " dir "]  .\|.\|."
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\".IX  "mount command"  ""  "\f2mount\fP \(em mount file system"
.\".IX  "mount file system"  ""  "mount file system \(em \f2mount\fP"
.\".IX  "file system"  "mount"  ""  "mount \(em \f2mount\fP"
.\".IX  "umount command"  ""  "\f2umount\fP \(em unmount file system"
.\".IX  "unmount file system"  ""  "unmount file system \(em \f2umount\fP"
.\".IX  "demount file system"  ""  "demount file system \(em \f2umount\fP"
.\".IX  "file system"  "unmount"  ""  "unmount \(em \f2umount\fP"
.\".IX  "file system"  "demount"  ""  "demount \(em \f2umount\fP"
.I Mount
announces to the system that a filesystem
.I fsname
is to be attached to the file tree at the directory
.IR dir .
The directory
.I dir
must already exist.
It becomes the name of the newly mounted root.  The contents of
.I dir
are hidden until the filesystem is unmounted.
If
.I fsname
is of the form
.IR host:path ,
the filesystem type is assumed to be
.IR nfs (4).
.LP
.I Umount
announces to the system that the filesystem 
.I fsname
previously mounted on directory
.I dir
should be removed.  Either the filesystem name or the mounted-on
directory may be used.
.LP
.I mount
and
.I umount
maintain a table of mounted filesystems in
.I /etc/mtab,
described in
.IR mtab (5).
If invoked without an argument,
.I mount
displays the table.  If invoked with only one of
.I fsname
or
.I dir
mount searches the file
.I /etc/fstab
(see 
.IR fstab (5))
for an entry whose
.I dir
or
.I fsname
field matches the given argument.
For example,
if this line is in
.IR /etc/fstab :
.Ps
/dev/xp0g /usr 4.2 rw 1 1
.Pe
then the commands
.Ps
mount /usr
.Pe
and
.Ps
mount /dev/xp0g
.Pe
are shorthand for
.Ps
mount /dev/xp0g /usr
.Pe
.\"Physically write-protected and magnetic tape file systems must
.\"be mounted read-only, or errrors will occur when access times
.\"are updated \(em whether or not any explicit write is
.\"attempted.
.\"More than one remote file system can be mounted on a
.\"directory.  Successive umounts reveal previously mounted file
.\"systems.
.SH "MOUNT OPTIONS"
.TP
.B \-p
Print the list of mounted filesystems in a format suitable for use in 
.IR /etc/fstab .
.TP
.B \-a
Attempt to mount all the filesystems described in
.IR /etc/fstab .
In this case,
.I fsname
and
.I dir
are taken from
.IR /etc/fstab .
If a type is specified,
all of the filesystems in
.I /etc/fstab
of that type is mounted.
Filesystems are not necessarily mounted in the order listed in
.IR /etc/fstab .
.TP
.B \-f
Fake a new
.I /etc/mtab
entry, but do not actually mount any filesystems.
.TP
.B \-v
Verbose.
.I Mount
displays a message indicating the filesystem being mounted.
.TP
.B \-t
The next argument is the filesystem type.
The accepted types are
.B 4.2
and
.BR nfs .
Refer to
.IR fstab (5)
for a description of these filesystem types.
.TP
.B \-r
Mount the specified filesystem read-only.  This is a shorthand for:
.Ps
mount \-o ro \f2fsname dir\f1
.Pe
Physically write-protected and magnetic tape filesystems must be mounted
read-only, or errors occur when access times are updated,
whether or not any explicit write is attempted.
.TP
.B \-o
Specify 
.IR options ,
a list of comma separated words from the list below.
Some options are valid for all filesystem types, while others apply
to a specific type only.
.sp 1
.IP 
.I options
valid on 
.I all 
file systems (the default is
.BR rw ,
.BR suid ):
.RS
.IP \f3rw\fP .75i
read/write.
.IP \f3ro\fP
read-only.
.IP \f3suid\fP
set-uid execution allowed.
.IP \f3nosuid\fP
set-uid execution not allowed.
.IP \f3hide\fP
ignore this entry during a
\f2mount -a\fP
command.
This allows you to allow you to define
.IR fstab (5)
entries for commonly used filesystems you don't want to automatically mount.
.RE
.sp 1
.IP
.I options 
specific to
.B 4.2
file systems (the default is
.BR noquota ):
.RS
.IP \f3quota\fP .75i
usage limits enforced.
.IP \f3noquota\fP
usage limits not enforced.
.RE
.sp 1
.IP
.I options
specific to 
.B nfs
(NFS) file systems.
The defaults are:
.sp 1
.B \0\0\0\0\0fg,retry=1,timeo=7,retrans=4,port=NFS_PORT,hard
.sp 1
with defaults for 
.I rsize 
and 
.I wsize 
set by the kernel:
.RS
.IP \f3bg\fP .75i
if the first mount attempt fails, retry in the background.
.IP \f3fg\fP
retry in foreground.
.IP \f3retry=\f2n\fP
set number of mount failure retries to 
.I n.
.IP \f3rsize=\f2n\fP
set read buffer size to 
.I n 
bytes.
.IP \f3wsize=\f2n\fP
set write buffer size to 
.I 
n bytes.
.IP \f3timeo=\f2n\fP
set NFS timeout to 
.I n 
tenths of a second.
.IP \f3retrans=\f2n\fP
set number of NFS retransmissions to 
.I n.
.IP \f3port=\f2n\fP
set server IP port number to 
.I n.
.IP \f3soft\fP
return error if server doesn't respond.
.IP \f3hard\fP
retry request until server responds.
.IP \f3intr\fP
allow keyboard interrupts on hard mounts.
.RE
.IP
The
.B bg
option causes 
.I mount
to run in the background if the server's
.IR mountd (8)
does not respond.  
.I Mount 
attempts each request
.BI retry= n
times before giving up.  Once the filesystem is mounted,
each NFS request made in the kernel waits
.B timeo
tenths of a second for a response.  If no response arrives, the
time-out is multiplied by 
.B 2 
and the request is retransmitted.  When
.B retrans
retransmissions have been sent with no reply a
.B soft
mounted filesystem returns an error on the request and a
.B hard
mounted filesystem retries the request.
Filesystems that are mounted 
.B rw
(read-write)
should use the 
.B hard
option.
The number of bytes in a read or write request can be set with the
.B rsize
and
.B wsize
options.
.SH "UMOUNT OPTIONS"
.TP 10
.BI \-h " host"
Unmount all filesystems listed in
.I /etc/mtab
that are remote-mounted from 
.I host.
.TP
.B \-a
Attempt to unmount all the filesystems currently mounted (listed
in
.IR /etc/mtab ).
In this case,
.I fsname
is taken from
.I /etc/mtab.
.TP
.B \-v
Verbose \(em
.I umount
displays a message indicating the filesystem being unmounted.
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
.ta \w'mount \-o hard server:/usr/src /usr/src 'u
mount /dev/xp0g /usr            	mount a local disk
mount \-at 4.2                  	mount all 4.2 filesystems
mount \-t nfs serv:/usr/src /usr/src	mount remote filesystem
mount serv:/usr/src /usr/src    	same as above
mount \-o hard serv:/usr/src /usr/src	same as above but hard mount
mount \-p > /etc/fstab          	save current mount state
.fi
.SH FILES
.DT
/etc/mtab	mount table
.br
/etc/fstab	filesystem table
.SH "SEE ALSO"
mount(2),
unmount(2),
fstab(5),
mountd(8c),
nfsd(8c)
.SH BUGS
Mounting filesystems full of garbage crashes the system.
.LP
If the directory on which a filesystem is to be mounted is a symbolic link,
the filesystem is mounted on the directory to which the symbolic link refers,
rather than being mounted on top of the symbolic link itself.
