.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: noage.8 1.6 87/06/17 $
.TH NOAGE 8 "\*(V)" "DYNIX"
.SH NAME
noage, nopff, noswap, on \- run a command with priority aging, PFF, swapping, or processor migration disabled
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/etc/noage
command [ arguments ]
.PP
.B /usr/etc/nopff
command [ arguments ]
.PP
.B /usr/etc/noswap
command [ arguments ]
.PP
.B /etc/on
proc command [ arguments ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Noage
executes
.I command
(and its children) with priority aging disabled.
Ordinarily, process priority is an
inverse function of the process's CPU usage in the recent past.
(See
.IR proc_ctl (2)).
.PP
.I Nopff
executes
.I command
without the command (or its children) being subjected to PFF adjustments.
PFF (Page Fault Frequency) adjustments are changes in the resident-set size
based on the frequency of page faults.
(See
.IR vm_ctl (2)).
.PP
.I Noswap
executes
.I command
with swapping for the command (and its children) disabled.
(See
.IR vm_ctl (2)).
.PP
.I On
executes
.I command
on processor number
.IR proc ,
with processor migration disabled for the command (and its children).
(See
.IR tmp_affinity (2)).
.PP
These commands may be nested; for example:
.Ps
/usr/etc/nopff /usr/etc/noswap /etc/on 0 mycommand arg1 arg2
.Pe
executes
.I mycommand
with swapping, PFF-ing, and processor migration disabled.
.PP
These commands are effective only when invoked by the superuser,
unless the underlying system call option has been configured for
non-superuser processes.
See the
.IR proc_ctl (2)
and
.IR vm_ctl (2)
manual entries for configuration options.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
proc_ctl(2), tmp_affinity(2), vm_ctl(2)
