.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: online.8 1.10 90/03/20 $
.TH ONLINE 8 "\*(V)" "DYNIX"
.SH NAME
online, offline \- bring processors online and offline
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/online 
.B \-N
.PP
.B /etc/online 
.B \-S
.PP
.B /etc/online
[
.B \-a
] [
.B \-v
] [ \f2processor-number\f1 ... ]
.PP
.B /etc/offline
[
.B \-a
] [
.B \-v
] [ \f2processor-number\f1 ... ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Online
initializes the given processors and begins scheduling user
processes.
Processors are numbered consecutively upward from zero.
.PP
.B Offline
removes the given processors from the pool of processors available
for work.
One processor is always left online.
.PP
Both
.B online
and
.B offline
display which processors are on and off line.
.PP
Only the superuser can take processors on or off line.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS "Online Options"
.TP \w'\--T\ 'u
.B \- N
Print the number of processors currently online.  Useful in shell scripts.
.TP
.B \- S 
Display a list of processors currently online.  Useful in shell
scripts.
.TP
.B \- a
Bring all processors online.            
.SS "Offline Options"
.TP \w'\--T\ 'u
.B \- a
Bring all processors but one offline.
.SS "Online and Offline Options"
.TP \w'\--T\ 'u
.B \-v
Display any resulting changes in state (on- or offline).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
halt(8), reboot(8), shutdown(8), tmp_ctl(2), tmp_affinity(2)
