.\" $Copyright: $
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: pac.8 1.6 1991/08/06 23:02:08 $
.TH PAC 8 "\*(V)" "4BSD"
.SH NAME
pac \- printer/plotter accounting information
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/etc/pac
[
.B \-Pprinter
] [
.B \-pprice
] [
.B \-s
] [
.B \-r
] [
.B \-c
] [ name ... ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Pac
reads the printer/plotter accounting files, accumulating the number
of pages (the usual case) or feet (for raster devices)
of paper consumed by each user, and printing out
how much each user consumed in pages or feet and dollars.
If any
.I names
are specified, then statistics are only printed for those users;
usually, statistics are printed for every user who has used any paper.
.PP
The
.B \-P
flag causes accounting to be done for the named printer.
Normally, accounting is done for the default printer (site dependent) or
the value of the environment variable
.B PRINTER
is used.
.PP
The
.B \-p
flag causes the value
.I price
to be used for the cost in dollars instead of the default value of 0.02.
.PP
The
.B \-c
flag causes the output to be sorted by cost; usually the
output is sorted alphabetically by name.
.PP
The
.B \-r
flag reverses the sorting order.
.PP
The
.B \-s
flag causes the accounting information to be summarized on the
summary accounting file; this summarization is necessary since on a
busy system, the accounting file can grow by several lines per day.
.SH FILES
.ta 2i
/usr/adm/?acct	raw accounting files
.br
/usr/adm/?_sum	summary accounting files
.SH BUGS
The relationship between the computed price and reality is
as yet unknown.
