.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986 Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.
.\" All rights reserved
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V=$Header: ping.8 1.4 87/04/30 $
.\" @(#)ping.8 1.1 85/12/28 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.TH PING 8 "\*(V)" "4BSD"
.SH NAME
ping \- send ICMP ECHO_REQUEST packets to network hosts
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/etc/ping
[
.B \-r
] [
.B \-v
]
.I host
[
.I count
] [
.I packetsize
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Ping
utilizes the
ICMP protocol's mandatory ECHO_REQUEST datagram to elicit an
ICMP ECHO_RESPONSE from a host or gateway.
ECHO_REQUEST datagrams (``pings'') have an IP and ICMP header,
followed by a
.BR "struct timeval ,
and then an arbitrary number of
.I pad
bytes used to fill out the packet.
The default datagram length is 64 bytes, but this may be changed
using the command-line option.
Other options are:
.TP
.B \-r
Bypass the normal routing tables and send directly to a host on an attached
network.
If the host is not on a directly-attached network,
an error is returned.
This option can be used to ping a local host through an interface
that has no route through it (e.g., after the interface was dropped by
.IR routed (8C)).
.TP
.B \-v
Verbose output.  ICMP packets other than ECHO RESPONSE that are received
are listed.
.PP
When using \fIping\fR for fault isolation,
it should first be run on the local
host, to verify that the local network interface is up and
running.
Then, hosts and gateways further and further away
should be ``pinged''.
.I Ping
sends one datagram and
prints one line of output.
If an optional
.I count
is given, that number of requests is sent, and
and one line for every ECHO_RESPONSE returned is printed.
No output is produced if there is no response.
Round-trip times and packet loss statistics are computed.
When all responses have been received or the program times out (
.I count
packets sent),
or if the program is terminated with a SIGINT, a brief
summary is displayed.
.PP
This program is intended for use in network testing, measurement
and management.
It should be used primarily for manual fault isolation.
Because of the load it could impose on the network,
it is unwise to use
.I ping
during normal operations or from automated scripts.
.SH AUTHOR
Mike Muuss
.SH SEE ALSO
netstat(1),
icmp(4P),
ifconfig(8C)
