.\" $Copyright: $
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: pmap.8 1.5 1991/08/06 23:02:20 $
.TH PMAP 8 "\*(V)" "DYNIX"
.SH NAME
pmap \- display or alter parameters of virtual-to-physical mapping devices
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/pmap
file
[ paddr size
[ type ] ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I File
must be a character special file associated with the
.I pmap
device driver (see
.IR pmap (4)).
.I Pmap
sets the parameters of the indicated
.I file
to those specified (if any) and then displays all the file's parameters.
.PP
The following parameters can be changed
(only by the superuser, and only while the file is not in use):
.TP
.I paddr
The starting physical address of the region associated with the file.
Must be hexadecimal, and must be a multiple of the system page size,
as returned by
.IR getpagesize (2).
.TP
.I size
The (hexadecimal) size of the region, in bytes.
Must be hexadecimal, and must be a multiple of the system page size.
.TP
.I type
Must be either ``npmem'' (non-paged memory)
or ``phys'' (physical).
The PMAP_NPMEM bit for this file is set or cleared as indicated.
.PP
.I Pmap
also reports whether the file is currently mapped
and whether it is currently open for exclusive access.
.PP
NOTE: This command allows the superuser to associate a file
with any range of physical addresses,
including MULTIBUS mapping registers, nonexistent memory, etc.
Specifying incorrect values for
.I paddr
or
.I size
can lead to catastrophic results.
.SH FILES
/dev/alm/alm\f2nn\fP	Atomic Lock Memory
.br
others		Other pmap files are application-specific.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
pmap(4), getpagesize(2)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
``Not a typewriter'' indicates that the specified
.I file
is not a
.I pmap
device.
