.\" $Copyright: $
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: quot.8 1.7 1991/08/07 00:16:21 $
.TH QUOT 8 "\*(V)" "4BSD"
.SH NAME
quot \- summarize file system ownership
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/etc/quot
[ option ] ...
[ filesystem ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Quot
prints the number of blocks in the named
.I filesystem
currently owned by each user.
If no 
.I filesystem
is named, a default name is assumed.
The following options are available:
.TP
.B \-n
Cause the pipeline
.B "ncheck filesystem | sort +0n | quot \-n filesystem
to produce a list of all files and their owners.
.TP
.B \-c
Print three columns giving file size in blocks, number of
files of that size, and cumulative total of blocks
in that size or smaller file.
.TP
.B \-f
Print count of number of files as well as space owned by each user.
.TP
.B \-h
Print the number of blocks needed to represent the files
assuming that none of the files have holes
(are not sparse files).
The calculation is based on the inode's
.I size
field,
and will differ from the inode's
.I blocks
field,
if the filesystem contains sparse files.
.TP
.B \-v
Print three columns for each user
giving the number of blocks not accessed in the last
30,
60,
and 90 days.
.TP
.B \-a
Print information for all mounted filesystems.
.SH FILES
Default file system varies with system.
.br
/etc/passwd	to get user names
.SH "SEE ALSO"
ls(1), du(1)
