.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: quotaon.8 1.4 88/08/15 $
.\" @(#)quotaon.8	1.2 87/02/10 NFSSRC
.\" .TH QUOTAON 8  "28 June 1983"
.\" .UC 4
.TH QUOTAON 8  "\*(V)" "4BSD"
.SH NAME
quotaon, quotaoff \- turn filesystem quotas on and off
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/etc/quotaon
[
.B \-v
]
.I filesystem...
.PP
.B /usr/etc/quotaon
[
.B \-v
]
.B \-a
.PP
.B /usr/etc/quotaoff
[
.B \-v
]
.I filesystem...
.PP
.B /usr/etc/quotaoff
[
.B \-v
]
.B \-a
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I quotaon
announces to the system that disk quotas should be enabled
on one or more filesystems.
The filesystems specified must have entries
in
.I
/etc/fstab
and be mounted at the time.
The filesystem quota files must be present in the root
directory of the specified filesystem and be named
.IR quotas .
The optional
.B \-v
argument causes
.I quotaon
to print a message for each filesystem that has quotas turned on.
If
.IR quotaon
has an
.B \-a
argument
instead of a list of filesystems, 
quotas are turned on for all filesystems whose entries in
.I
/etc/fstab
indicate that they allow read-write access and have quotas.
This option is normally used
to enable quotas
at boot time.
.PP
.I quotaoff
announces to the system that filesystems specified should
have any disk quotas turned off.  As above, the
.B \-v
option forces a verbose message for each filesystem affected, and
the 
.B \-a
option disables quotas for all filesystems listed in
.I /etc/fstab .
.PP
These commands
update the status field of devices located in
.I /etc/mtab
to indicate when quotas are on or off for each filesystem.
.SH FILES
.TP 15
/etc/mtab
mount table
.TP 15
/etc/fstab
filesystem table
.SH "SEE ALSO"
quotactl(2),
mtab(5), fstab(5)
