.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: quotacheck.8 1.6 88/08/16 $
.\" @(#)quotacheck.8	1.2 87/02/10 NFSSRC
.\" .TH QUOTACHECK 8  "18 July 1983"
.\" .UC 4
.TH QUOTACHECK 8  "\*(V)" "4BSD"
.SH NAME
quotacheck \- filesystem quota consistency checker
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/etc/quotacheck
[
.B \-v
] [
.B \-p
]
filesystem...
.br
.B /usr/etc/quotacheck
[
.B \-v
]
] [
.B \-p
]
.B \-a
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I quotacheck
examines each filesystem,
builds a table of current disk usage,
and compares this table against that stored
in the disk quota file for the filesystem.
If any inconsistencies are detected, both the
quota file and the current system copy of the
incorrect quotas are updated.  (The latter 
occurs only if an active filesystem is checked).
.PP
.I quotacheck
expects each filesystem to be checked to have a quota file named
.I quotas
in the root directory.  If none is present,
.I quotacheck
ignores the filesystem.
.PP
.I quotacheck
is normally run at boot time from the
.B /etc/rc.local
file, see
.IR rc (8),
before disk quotas are enabled with
.IR quotaon (8).
.PP
.I quotacheck
accesses the raw device in calculating the actual disk usage for each
user.  Thus, the filesystems checked should be quiescent while
.I quotacheck
is running.
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.TP 8
.B \-v
Indicate the calculated disk quotas
for each user on a particular filesystem.
.I quotacheck
normally reports only those quotas modified.
.TP 8
.B \-a
Check all the filesystems whose entries in
.I /etc/fstab
indicate they allow read-write access and have disk quotas.
.TP 8
.B \-p
Run parallel passes on the required filesystems,
using the pass numbers in
.I /etc/fstab
in the same way they are used with
.IR fsck (8).
.SH FILES
.DT
/etc/fstab	default filesystems
.SH "SEE ALSO"
quotactl(2), quotaon(8)
