.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
V= $Header: /usr/src/dynix.3.2.0/src/doc/man8/RCS/rc.8,v 1.4 1993/03/19 04:37:10 bruce Exp $
.TH RC 8 "\*(V)" "4BSD"
.SH NAME
rc.boot, rc, rc.local, rc.shutdown, rc.single \- command scripts for auto-reboot,
daemons, shutdown, and single-user mode
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/rc.boot
.br
.B /etc/rc
.br
.B /etc/rc.local
.br
.B /etc/rc.shutdown
.br
.B /etc/rc.single
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
command script
.B rc.boot
is executed whenever the machine is booted.
The script
.B rc
controls the automatic reboot process.
The script
.B rc.local
holds site-specific commands.
The script
.B rc.shutdown
controls shutdowns, halts, and the shutdown portion
of manual reboots.  The
.B rc.single
script holds commands to be run when the machine goes into single-user
(whether booted that way, or brought down from multi-user mode).
.PP
The script
.BR rc.boot ,
if it exists,
is executed by
.I init
whenever the machine is booted.
By default,
.B rc.boot
does not exist.
It could be used to do one-time initializations,
such as configuring network interfaces.
.PP
If booting to single-user mode,
.I init
then executes
.BR rc.single ,
if it exists,
and starts a single-user shell.
.PP
When an automatic reboot is in progress
(i.e., booting to multi-user mode),
.B rc
is invoked with the argument
.IR autoboot .
It runs
.I fsck
with the
.I \-p
option to ``preen'' all the disks of minor inconsistencies resulting
from the last system shutdown, and to check for serious inconsistencies
caused by hardware or software failure.
If this auto-check and repair fails, then the machine is left in
single-user mode.
.PP
The second part of
.B rc
runs after the first part succeeds, and also when
.B rc
is invoked by virtue of a single-user shell terminating (refer to the
.IR init (8)
man page).
This part executes
.B rc.local
(described below),
starts additional swap devices,
preserves editor files,
clears the scratch directory
.IR /tmp ,
and starts daemons on the system.
.PP
Normally, the first part of
.B rc.local
uses
.I domainname
to define the machine's domain name,
starts up local daemons,
and uses 
.I savecore
to save any core image generated as a result of a system crash.
The
.I savecore
command is included in the
.B rc.local
file because the directory in which core dumps are saved
is usually site-specific.
The 
.B rc.local
script also defines the machine's hostname using
.I hostname
and configures network interfaces using
.IR ifconfig .
.PP
The script
.B rc.shutdown
is always called with a single argument.  It is called from
.IR shutdown ,
.IR halt , 
and 
.IR reboot .
.PP
The 
.I shutdown 
command calls
.B rc.shutdown
with the argument
.I warn
immediately before it sends the terminate signal (SIGTERM) to all non-system
processes.
This part of the script can be used by the system administrator to
turn off databases and other system-wide applications that need to
shut down gracefully. 
(Refer to the  
.IR shutdown (8)
man page for details of the sequence of events during system shutdown).  
After
.I shutdown 
sends all processes a kill signal (SIGKILL), it calls
.B rc.shutdown
with the argument
.IR shutdown .
This part of the
.B rc.shutdown
script handles any shutdown procedure that requires most processes to be
gone, such as unmounting disks.  The only processes alive at this
point are the system processes (init, swapper, pagedaemon),
.IR shutdown ,
a shell for 
.BR rc.shutdown ,
and any processes that did not die, if any.
.PP
The 
.I halt
command calls
.B rc.shutdown
with the argument
.I halt
before halting the last processor, and
.I reboot
similarly calls
.B rc.shutdown
with the argument
.I reboot
before the system is rebooted.
.PP
When the system is booted in single-user mode,
and when the system is brought down from multi-user mode into single-user mode,
.B rc.single
is executed if it exists.  By default this
script initializes the hostname and domainname of the system,
based on the hostname and domainname settings in
.BR rc.local .
.SH SEE ALSO
halt (8),
init (8),
reboot (8),
savecore (8),
shutdown (8),
fsck (8),
domainname (8),
hostname (8),
ifconfig (8)
