.\" $Copyright: $
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: reboot.8 1.13 1991/06/12 00:53:08 $
.TH REBOOT 8 "\*(V)" "DYNIX"
.SH NAME
reboot \- DYNIX bootstrapping procedures
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/reboot
[
.B \-n
] [
.B \-q
] [
.B \-l
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The operating system is bootstrapped by placing it in memory and
transferring control to it.
Since the operating system is not reenterable,
it is necessary to read it in from disk or tape
each time it is to be booted.
.PP
.B Rebooting a running system.
When the operating system is running and a reboot is desired, the
.B shutdown
command is normally used.
If there are no users,
the
.B reboot
command can be used.
This command calls the command script
.B rc.shutdown
with the argument
.IR reboot ,
executes a
.B sync
system call,
and initiates
a multiuser
reboot (as described below).  The system is
booted and an automatic disk check is performed.  If all this succeeds,
the system is brought up to multiuser operation.
.PP
Options to
.B reboot
are:
.TP
.B \-q
reboots quickly and ungracefully, without shutting down running
processes first, and without calling the shutdown script.
.TP
.B \-n
avoids
.IR sync ing
the disks.
A typical use of this option is when a manual
.B fsck
modifies the
.I root
filesystem.  The
.B \-q
option should be used with
.B \-n
if the
.B rc.shutdown
script runs commands that 
.I sync
the disks (such as
.BR umount (8)).
.TP
.B \-l
.B reboot
normally logs the reboot using
.BR syslog (8).
This action is inhibited if the
.B \-l 
option is present.
.PP
.B Reboot
places a shutdown record in the login accounting file
.I /usr/adm/wtmp
unless the
.B \-n
or
.B \-q
options are present.
.PP
.B "Power fail and crash recovery."
Normally, the system will reboot itself after a crash.
The system will also reboot itself on powerup if AUTO is selected
on the front panel.
After reboot,
an automatic consistency check of the file systems is performed
and, unless this fails, the system will resume multiuser operations.
.PP
.B Cold starts.
Typing
.B b
in response to the powerup monitor asterisk prompt should bring the system up
to multiuser operation.
If that doesn't work, the default parameters may be set wrong.
In this case (or if you need to boot from an alternate device
or file), enter a monitor boot command of the form:
.PP
.IP
b 0
.I " device-specification"
.PP
to bring the system up to multiuser operation.
(Replace the 0 with 2 to come up in single-user operation instead.)
.PP
A device specification has the following form:
.IP
.I "device(unit,minor)filename"
.PP
where
.I device
is the type of the device to be searched,
.I unit
is device-dependent,
.I minor
is the minor device index,
and
.I filename
(optional) is the path to the specified file (filesystem devices only).
The following list of supported devices may vary from installation to
installation:
.PP
.ta 5 10
	rs	RS-232 line via the
.B host
program
.br
	sd	SCSI disk
.br
	ts	tape unit
.PP
For disks, the minor device index is the partition
(0 is partition
.IR a ,
1 is
partition
.IR b ,
and so on).  For tapes, the minor device index gives a file offset.
.if t .bp  \"BREAK PAGE IN TROFF OUTPUT
.SH FILES
.if n .ta 2i
.if t .ta 1.5i
.I "/dynix	"
system code
.br
.I "/boot	"
system bootstrap
.br
.I "/etc/rc.shutdown	"
system shutdown script
.br
.I "/usr/adm/wtmp	"
login accounting file
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR fastboot (8),
.BR fsck (8),
.BR init (8),
.BR rc (8),
.BR shutdown (8),
.BR halt (8),
.BR newfs (8),
.BR syslogd (8),
.BR sync (2),
.BR host (8)
.SH BUGS
The shutdown script should know not to 
.I sync
the disks when 
.B reboot
is given the
.B \-n
option.
