.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: repquota.8 1.5 88/08/15 $
.\" Copyright (c) 1983 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	@(#)repquota.8	6.1 (Berkeley) 4/27/85
.\"
.\" .TH REPQUOTA 8 "April 27, 1985"
.\" .UC 5
.TH REPQUOTA 8  "\*(V)" "5BSD"
.SH NAME
repquota \- summarize quotas for a filesystem
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/etc/repquota
[
.B \-v
]
.IR filesystem .\|.\|.
.LP
.B /usr/etc/repquota
[
.B \-v
]
.B \-a
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I repquota
displays a summary of the disk usage and quotas for the
specified filesystems.  It shows
the current
number files and amount of space (in kilobytes)
for each user
along with any quotas created with
.IR edquota (8).
.PP
Only the super-user may view another user's quotas.
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.TP 8
.B \-a
Report on all filesystems whose entries 
in
.I /etc/fstab
indicate that they allow read-write access and have quotas.
.TP 8
.B \-v
Include all users having quotas, even if they are not using space.
.SH FILES
.TP 15
quotas
at the root of each filesystem with quotas
.TP 15
/etc/fstab
has filesystem names and locations
.SH SEE ALSO
quota(1), quotactl(2), quotacheck(8), quotaon(8), edquota(8)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Various self-explanatory
messages about inaccessible files
