.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: rpcinfo.8 1.4 87/04/07 $
.\" @(#)rpcinfo.8 1.1 85/12/28 SMI;
.TH RPCINFO 8 "\*(V)" "4BSD"
.SH NAME
rpcinfo \- report RPC information
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "rpcinfo \-p"
[ host ]
.br
.B "rpcinfo \-u"
host program-number
[ version-number ]
.br
.B "rpcinfo \-t"
host program-number
[ version-number ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\".IX  "rpcinfo command"  ""  "\f2rpcinfo\fP \(em report RPC information"
.I Rpcinfo
makes an RPC call to an RPC server and reports what it finds.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-p
Probe the portmapper on
.IR host ,
and print a list of all registered RPC programs.
If 
.I host
is not specified, it defaults to the value returned by
.IR hostname (1).
.TP
.B \-u
Make an RPC call to procedure 0 of
.I program-number
using UDP, and report whether a response was received.
.TP
.B \-t
Make an RPC call to procedure 0 of
.I program-number
using TCP, and report whether a response was received.
.LP
The
.I program-number
argument can be either a name or a number.  If no version is given,
it defaults to 1.
.SH FILES
/etc/rpc	names for rpc program numbers
.SH "SEE ALSO"
rpc(5),
portmap(8),
.I "RPC Programming Guide"
