.\" $Copyright: $
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: savecore.8 1.18 1991/11/07 23:51:22 $
.TH SAVECORE 8 "\*(V)" "4BSD/DYNIX"
.SH NAME
savecore \- save a core dump of the operating system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/etc/savecore 
[
.B \-d 
.I dumpstring
] [
.B \-C 
] [
.B \-P
.I processes
] [
.B \-s
.I seg_size
]
.I dirname
[
.I system
]
.PP
.B /usr/etc/savecore 
[
.B \-d 
.I dumpstring
] 
.B \-c
.PP
.B /usr/etc/savecore 
[
.B \-d 
.I dumpstring
] 
.B \-q
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Savecore
is meant to be called near the end of the /etc/rc file.  Its function
is to save the core dump of the system (assuming one was made) and to
write a reboot message in the shutdown log.
.PP
Savecore saves the core image in the file
.IR dirname /vmcore.n
or
.IR dirname/vmcore.n.ZZ
if either the
.I -C
flag is specified, or cdump(8s) was used for taking the memory dump.
If the core dump corresponds with the current running dynix, or the
dynix specified in
.IR system ,
it is saved in
.IR dirname /dynix.n.
Savecore does not verify if the core dump corresponds with the current 
running dynix, when restoring or creating compressed dumps.
The trailing ".n" in the pathnames is replaced by a number which grows
every time
.I savecore
is run in that directory.
Savecore also saves the output from
.IR /etc/dmesg (8)
into
.IR dirname /dmesg.n.
.PP
Before savecore writes out a core image, it reads a number from the file
.IR dirname /minfree.
If there are fewer free blocks on the filesystem
which contains
.I dirname
than the number obtained from the minfree file, the core dump is not done.
If the minfree file does not exist, savecore always writes out the core
file (assuming that a core dump was taken).
.PP
.I Savecore
also writes a reboot message in the shut down log.  If the system crashed
as a result of a panic,
.I savecore
records the panic string in the shut down log too.
.PP
If the core dump was from a system other than /dynix, the name
of that system must be supplied as
.IR sysname .
.PP
If savecore is invoked with
.BR \-c ,
the dump, if one exists, is cleared (that is, discarded).
.PP
If savecore is invoked with
.BR \-q ,
savecore checks to see if a dump exists.
If a dump exists, ``Dump exists.'' is printed.
Otherwise, ``No dump.'' is printed.
.PP
If savecore is invoked with
.BR \-C
, it writes the
.I vmcore
in a compressed format and adds ".ZZ" to the end of the 
.I vmcore
filename.  With 
.BR \-C 
specified, the option
.BR -P
specifies how many parallel processes should be used for compressing the 
input. The default is one for each engine on-line, which is the optimum
amount of parallelism. Finally, with 
.BR \-C 
specified, 
.BR -s
may be specified to fine-tune compression performance; the default value(8k)
was selected to optimize 
.I crash(8) 
performance. 
.PP
If cdump was used for taking the memory dump, savecore writes the 
.I vmcore
in a compressed format, and adds ".ZZ" to the 
.I vmcore
filename. When savecore saves such a compressed dump (produced by cdump),  
it prints out both the real size of memory, and the size of the compressed
image it is restoring. The 
.BR \-C 
option is ignored when saving a dump
produced by cdump, because it is already in a compressed form.
.PP
If savecore is invoked with
.BR \-d
followed by a \fIdumpstring of\fP the form "offset device", it will use this
\fIdumpstring\fP instead of the system default \fIdumpstring\fP.  A
\fIdumpstring\fP of
the form "-f dumplist" will tell savecore to use the named \fIdumplist\fP
file.
.PP
An example of specifying an alternative \fIdumpstring\fP looks like:
.sp 1
.RS
savecore -d "1000 /dev/zd0b"
.RE
.sp 1
The command to have savecore look in /etc/DUMPLIST for \fIdumpstrings\fP
would look like:
.sp 1
.RS
savecore -d "-f /etc/DUMPLIST"
.RE
.sp 1
.SH FILES
.ta \w'/usr/adm/shutdownlog\0\0\0'u
.nf
/usr/adm/shutdownlog	shut down log
/dynix	current DYNIX
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
dump(8S)
cdump(8s)
crash(8)
ccompress(8)
unccompress(8)
.SH "BUGS"
The
.BR \-c
option of savecore clears a dump by zeroing the magic number
(if it exists) held on the swap partition.  If this location is being
used for swapping, it can become corrupted.  The chance of this happening
is very small.
.PP
The
.BR \-C
option of savecore will not work if the dump was written to tape.  Use
cdump(8s) if tapes must be used and compression is desired.
