.\" $Copyright: $
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: sestat.8 1.6 1991/08/06 23:02:48 $
.TH SESTAT 8 "\*(V)" "DYNIX"
.SH NAME
sestat \- print Ethernet statistics
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/etc/sestat
[
.B \-z
] [
.B system
[
.B corefile
] ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Sestat
prints summary statistics about the Ethernet interface
.IR se .
If
.I corefile
is given, the statistics are sought there, otherwise
in
.IR /dev/kmem .
The required namelist is taken from
.I /dynix
unless
.I system
is specified.
Options are
.TP 0.4i
.B \-z
After printing the statistics, zero them in
.IR corefile .
This is useful for monitoring the health of the network
over short periods of time.
You must be the super-user to do this.
.PP
Statistics printed by
.I sestat
are summaries since the last boot (or the last sestat -z),
and are printed for all se interfaces.
The statistics printed are:
.in +0.5i
.RS
.IP - 2n
The number of times the receiver couldn't keep up with
the network (receiver overflows).
.IP -
The number of packets received with CRC errors.
.IP -
The number of packets received with dribble errors
(the hardware compensates for these errors).
.IP -
The number of short packets received.
.IP -
The number of good packets received (includes the dribble errors).
.IP -
The number of times the transmitter didn't keep up with
the transmit DMA (transmit underflows).
.IP -
The number of transmit collisions (usually in the same
range as transmit underflows).
.IP -
The number of excessive transmit collisions (16 collisions in a row).
.IP -
The number of good packets transmitted.
.RE
.in -0.5i
.SH FILES
.ta \w'/dev/kmem  'u
/dynix	namelist
.br
/dev/kmem	default source of tables
.SH SEE ALSO
se(4)
.SH BUGS
There is no way to zero the statistics for a single Ethernet interface.
