.\" $Copyright: $
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: showcfg.8 1.8 1991/05/23 17:49:59 $
.TH SHOWCFG 8 "\*(V)" "DYNIX"
.SH NAME
showcfg \- show the configuration of the machine
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/showcfg
[
.B \-s
|
.B \-d
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Showcfg
displays the configuration of the system in a manner similar to
the
.B rc
command of the power-up monitor.
.PP
The
.B \-s
flag selects an alternate one-line format that gives the quantity of
each type of board.
.PP
The
.B \-d
flag produces a dump of relevant parts of the system's configuration description
table.  The data displayed includes information about the memory
available, the boot flags, the boot device, console tty control characters,
and the current system bus mode. Note that proccessor boards are numbered
for each proccessor type, and so \f3showprocs\fP should be used to determine
the engine number.
.PP
The 
.B "maxmem, bottom"
and
.B mmap_size
values displayed with the
.B \-d
flag represent the system's
maximum configured memory, the highest memory location used by SCED f/w, and
the number of bits in the memory bitmap, respectively.
.SH FILES
.DT
/dev/kmem
.SH SEE ALSO
dmesg(8), showproc(8)
.br
/usr/adm/messages
.SH BUGS
Boards on the MULTIBUS are not currently displayed.
