.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: shutdown.8 1.11 90/07/23 $
.\" @(#)shutdown.8 1.1 85/12/28 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.TH SHUTDOWN 8 "\*(V)" "4BSD"
.SH NAME
shutdown \- close down the system at a given time
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/shutdown
.RB [ \-k ]
.RB [ \-r ]
.RB [ \-h ]
.RB [ \-f ]
.RB [ \-n ]
.I time
.RI [ "warning-message ..." ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\".IX  "shutdown command"  ""  "\f2shutdown\fP \(em shut down system"
The 
.B shutdown
command
provides an automated shutdown procedure for the super-user
to notify users when the system is shutting down.
The 
.I time
argument specifies when
.B shutdown
will bring the system down; it may be the word
.B now
(indicating an immediate shutdown),
or it may specify a future time in one of two formats:
.BI + number
and
.IB hour : minute.
The first form brings the system down in
.I number
minutes, and the second brings the system down
at the time of day indicated in 24-hour notation.
.LP
At intervals that get smaller as the system shutdown approaches,
warning messages are displayed at terminals of all logged-in users,
and of users who have remote mounts on that machine.
Five minutes before shutdown,
or immediately if shutdown is in less than 5 minutes,
logins are disabled by creating the file
.I /etc/nologin
and writing a message there.
If this file exists when a user attempts to log in,
.B login
prints its contents and exits.  The file is removed just before
.B shutdown
exits.
.LP
At shutdown time a
message is written in the system log, containing the
time of shutdown, who ran shutdown and the reason.
The script
.B /etc/rc.shutdown
is called with the argument
.IR warn .
A terminal stop signal is sent to
.B init,
so that processes are not respawned as they die.
If
.B \-r,
.B \-n,
or
.B \-k,
was used, then
.B shutdown
will exec
.BR reboot (8),
.BR halt (8),
or avoid shutting the system down (respectively).
Otherwise
.B shutdown
sends all remaining non-system processes a 
.I sigterm
signal, then
calls
.B /etc/rc.shutdown
with the argument 
.IR shutdown .
Finally, it sends a terminate signal to
.BR init ,
which brings the system down to single-user mode.
.PP
The option
.B \-k
is to make people think the system is going down,
but does not actually take it down.
.PP
With the
.B \-f
option,
.B shutdown
arranges, in the manner of
.BR fastboot (8),
that when the system is rebooted the file systems will not
be checked.  
.PP
The
.B \-n
option prevents the normal
.BR sync (2)
before stopping.
.LP
The time of the shutdown and the warning message are placed in the file
.IR /etc/nologin ,
which should be used to tell the users when the system
will be back up, and why it is going down.
.SH FILES
.if n .ta 2.25i
.if t .ta 1.75i
.I "/etc/nologin	"
tells
.B login
not to let anyone log in
.br
.I "/etc/rmtab	"
list of remote hosts that have mounted this host
.br
.I "/etc/rc.shutdown	"
system shutdown script
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR login (1),
.BR reboot (8),
.BR rc (8),
.BR init (8),
.BR halt (8),
.BR fastboot (8)
.SH BUGS
.B Shutdown
only allows you to kill the system between now and 23:59 if
you use the absolute time for shutdown.
.PP
The disks will still be 
.IR sync ed
even if
.B -n
option is given if the
.B rc.shutdown
script runs commands that
.I sync
the disks (such as
.BR umount (8)).
