.\" $Copyright:	$
.\"Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\"Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\"This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\"only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\"inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\"be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\"other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\"hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: spray.8 1.2 87/06/18 $
.\" @(#)spray.8c	1.2 87/02/10 NFSSRC
.\" @(#)spray.8c 1.1 86/09/25 SMI;
.TH SPRAY 8 "29 July 1986"
.SH NAME
spray \- spray packets
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/etc/spray
host
[
.B \-c  
.I count
]
[
.B \-l  
.I length
] 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "spray command"  ""  "\fLspray\fP \(em spray packets"
.I spray
sends a one-way stream of packets to \fIhost\fP using RPC, and
then reports how many were received by \fIhost\fP and
what the transfer rate was.
The host name can be either a name or an internet address.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-c " count"
Specifies how many packets to send.
The default value of \fIcount\fP is the numbers of packets required
to make the total stream size 100000 bytes.
.TP
.BI \-l " length"
The \fIlength\fP parameter is the numbers of bytes in the
ethernet packet that holds the RPC call message.  Since the data
is encoded using XDR,
and XDR only deals with 32 bit quantities,
not all values of \fIlength\fP are possible, and
.I spray
rounds up to the nearest possible value.  When \fIlength\fP
is greater than 1514, then the RPC call can no longer be
encapsulated in one Ethernet packet, so the \fIlength\fP field
no longer has a simple correspondence to Ethernet packet size.
The default value of \fIlength\fP
is 86 bytes (the size of the RPC and UDP headers)
.SH "SEE ALSO"
sprayd(8C)
