.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
.\"
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.  This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: sticky.8 1.7 91/02/22 $
.TH STICKY 8 "\*(V)" "4BSD"
.SH NAME
sticky \- executable files with persistent text and append-only directories
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I "sticky bit"
(file mode bit 01000, see
.IR chmod (2))
is used to indicate special treatment
for certain executable files and directories.
.SH "STICKY TEXT EXECUTABLE FILES"
Normally,
the text pages of a sharable executable file remain cached in memory
long after all instances of a text image exit.
The system's representation of shared text is reused on a
.I least recently used
basis
(the system reuses the oldest text pages first).
When the `sticky bit',
is set on a sharable executable file,
the system's representation of the shared text is
.B never
reused.
.PP
Sharable files are created using the
.B \-n
and
.B \-z
options of
.IR ld (1).
.PP
To replace a sticky executable that has been used:
.TP
(1)
Create a new file with the same name.
Note that if the file is being executed by any process,
writing is prevented;
it suffices to simply remove the file and then rewrite it,
being careful to reset the owner and mode with
.IR chmod (2)
and
.IR chown (2)
(see
.IR install (1)).
.TP
(2)
Set the sticky bit again.
.PP
Only the super-user can set the sticky bit on a sharable executable file.
.SH "STICKY DIRECTORIES"
A directory whose `sticky bit' is set
becomes an append-only directory, or, more accurately,
a directory in which the deletion of files is restricted.
A file in a sticky directory may only be removed or renamed
by a user if the user has write permission for the directory and
the user is the owner of the file, the owner of the directory,
the super-user, or the user has write permission on the file.
This feature is usefully applied to directories such as /tmp
which must be publicly writable but
should deny users the license to arbitrarily
delete or rename each others' files.
.PP
Any user may create a sticky directory.
See
.IR chmod (1)
for details about modifying file modes.
.SH NOTE
.I Sticky
executables are largely unnecessary on a virtual-memory machine,
since text pages are normally cached as long as possible
after all instances of a text image exit.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
chmod(2),
chown(2),
install(1)
