.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: swapon.8 1.8 87/05/27 $
.TH SWAPON 8 "\*(V)" "4BSD"
.SH NAME
swapon \- specify additional device for paging and swapping
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "/usr/etc/swapon"
.B \-a
.br
.B "/usr/etc/swapon"
name ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Swapon
is used to specify additional devices on which paging and swapping
are to take place.
The system begins by swapping and paging on only a single device
so that only one disk is required at bootstrap time.
Calls to
.I swapon
normally occur in the system multi-user initialization file
.I /etc/rc
making all swap devices available, so that the paging and swapping
activity is interleaved across several devices.
.PP
Normally, the
.B \-a
argument is given, causing all devices marked as ``swap''
swap devices in
.B /etc/fstab
to be made available.
.PP
The second form gives individual block devices as given
in the system swap configuration table.  The call makes only this space
available to the system for swap allocation.
.SH SEE ALSO
swapon(2),
mntent(5),
init(8)
.SH FILES
.DT
/dev/xp?b,
/dev/sd?b,
/dev/zd?b	normal paging devices
.SH BUGS
There is no way to stop paging and swapping on a device.
It is therefore not possible to make use of devices which may be
dismounted during system operation.
