.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
.\"
...
.V= $Header: sweepd.8 1.3 90/09/02 $
.TH SWEEPD 8 "\*(V)" "DYNIX"
.SH NAME
sweepd \- patrol seek on DCC drives
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/etc/sweepd
[
.B \-d
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I sweepd
performs patrol seeks on all DCC drives at 5 minute intervals.
.I sweepd
was created because DCC drive manufacturers recommend
that disk heads be moved at regular intervals to increase drive longevity.
Therefore
.I sweepd
should 
.I always
be set up to execute at system boot time,
which can be done by putting it in the 
.I /etc/rc.local
file.
.sp
If the
.B \-d
option is specified,
debug output is produced on
.B stdout.
More voluminous output is generated
if the option is doubled.
.sp
It is possible to disable patrol seeks on a specific drive by adding
the name of the drive to the file
.I /usr/etc/sweepd.ignore.
The format of the
.I sweepd.ignore
file is one disk name per line.  The name should start in the
first column.  Comment lines may be specified with a pound sign (#)
in the first column.  Blank lines are ignored.
For example, to disable patrol seeks for
.I zd4,
add 
.I zd4
to the 
.I sweepd.ignore
file on its own line and seeks will be disabled on that
device.  Note that the entry must be in the file
when the daemon is invoked in order to be disabled.
It is recommended that patrol seeks remain enabled on
all DCC drives.
.SH FILES
/usr/etc/sweepd.ignore
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The diagnostics produced by 
.B sweepd
are intended to be self-explanatory.
