.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: tftpd.8c 1.12 91/04/02 $
.TH TFTPD 8C "\*(V)" "4BSD"
.SH NAME
tftpd \- DARPA Trivial File Transfer Protocol server
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f3/usr/etc/tftpd\f1 [\f3\-s\fP] [\f3\-S\fP] [\f2homedir\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The server
.B tftpd
supports the DARPA Trivial File Transfer
Protocol.
The TFTP server operates
at the port indicated in the ``tftp'' service description;
see
.B services (5).
The server is normally started by
.B inetd (8).
.PP
Before responding to a request, the server attempts to
change its current directory to \f2homedir\fP.
The default value, as distributed in
.B /etc/inetd.conf,
is
.B /tftpboot.
.PP
The use of
.B tftp
does not require an account or password on the remote system.
Due to the lack of authentication information, 
.B tftpd
will allow only publicly readable files to be
accessed.
Files may be written only if they already exist and are publicly writable.
Note that this extends the concept of ``public'' to include
all users on all hosts that can be reached through the network;
this may not be appropriate on all systems, and its implications
should be considered before enabling tftp service.
.PP
The \f3tftpd\fP server runs with the user ID and group ID set to
.B \-2 ,
under the assumption that no files exist with that owner or group.
However, nothing checks this assumption or enforces this restriction.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.IP \f3\-s\f1
Secure.  When specified, the daemon executes a
.B chroot(2)
to \f2homedir\fP, which must succeed.
.IP \f3\-S\f1
Stand alone.  The server can be optionally used as a stand alone daemon,
independent of
.B inetd (8).
This usage is for situations in which the number of 
.B tftp
requests that the server has to respond to is very high over a very short
period of time (e.g. handling
boot requests from a large community of X terminals).  
The 
\f3\-S\f1
option is used to start the server as a stand alone daemon;
you must manually place an entry to do so in your
.B /etc/rc.local
file and comment out the entry for 
.B tftpd
in your
.B /etc/inetd.conf
file .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
tftp(1C), inetd(8)
