.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: trpt.8c 1.8 91/04/03 $
.TH TRPT 8C "\*(V)" "4BSD"
.SH NAME
trpt \- transliterate protocol trace
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/etc/trpt
[
.B \-a
] [
.B \-s
]  [
.B \-t
] [
.B \-j
] [
.B \-p
hex-address ] [ system [ core ] ]
.sp
.B /usr/etc/tdmp
[
.B \-d
] [
.B \-f 
filename ] [
.B \-o
] [ system [ core ] ]
.sp
.B /usr/etc/tprint
[
.B \-i
in_filename ] [
.B \-o
out_filename ] [ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Trpt
interrogates the buffer of TCP trace records created
when a socket is marked for \*(lqdebugging\*(rq (see
.IR setsockopt (2)),
and prints a readable description of these records.
When no options are supplied, 
.I trpt
prints all the trace records found in the system
grouped according to TCP connection protocol control
block (PCB).  The following options may be used to
alter this behavior.
.TP
.B \-s
in addition to the normal output,
print a detailed description of the packet
sequencing information,
.TP
.B \-t
in addition to the normal output,
print the values for all timers at each
point in the trace,
.TP
.B \-j
just give a list of the protocol control block
addresses for which there are trace records,
.TP
.B \-p
show only trace records associated with the protocol
control block who's address follows,
.TP
.B \-a
in addition to the normal output,
print the values of the source and destination
addresses for each packet recorded.
.PP
The recommended use of
.I trpt
is as follows.
Isolate the problem and enable debugging on the
socket(s) involved in the connection.
Find the address of the protocol control blocks
associated with the sockets using the 
.B \-A
option to 
.IR netstat (1).
Then run
.I trpt
with the
.B \-p
option, supplying the associated
protocol control block addresses.  If there are
many sockets using the debugging option, the
.B \-j
option may be useful in checking to see if
any trace records are present for the socket in
question.
.PP
If debugging is being performed on a system or
core file other than the default, the last two
arguments may be used to supplant the defaults.
.PP
.I Tdmp
and
.I Tprint
are companion programs which can be used to accomplish the same
thing 
.I trpt
does.
.I Tdmp,
however, simply dumps the TCP debugging buffer in binary form to a
file.  The arguments to 
.I tdmp
are:
.TP
.B \-d
Turn on internal 
.I tdmp 
debugging.
.TP
.B \-f
Dump the binary output to the specified
.I filename.
.I Tdmp
will by default dump its output to the file ``tdmp.dmp.''
The special filename ``-'' can be used to cause
.I tdmp
to write its output to stdout.
.TP
.B \-o
Take one pass through the TCP debugging buffer, dumping all data which
is there, then exiting.  By default,
.I tdmp
loops forever tracking the debugging buffer as it is filled.
A SIGINTR can be used to stop  
.I tdmp.
if this options is not used.
.PP
The companion program, 
.I tprint
can be used to format the binary debugging data produced by
.I tdmp.
The arguments to 
.I tprint
are:
.TP
.B \-i
Read the binary input from the specified
.I filename.
By default
.I tprint
attempts to read from the file ``tdmp.dmp''.  The special filename ``-'' can
be used to specify stdin.
.TP
.B \-o
Write the formatted output to the specified
.I filename.
By default
.I tprint
writes to the file ``tprint.print.''  The special filename ``-'' can
be used to specify stdout.
.TP
.B options
The remaining options are identical to those specified above for
.I trpt.
.SH FILES
.nf
 /dynix		default ``system'' file
 /dev/kmem	default ``core'' file
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
netstat(1),
setsockopt(2)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.I Trpt
prints ``no namelist'' when the system image doesn't
contain the proper symbols to find the trace buffer;
others which should be self-explanatory.
.SH BUGS
Should also print the data for each input or output,
but this is not saved in the trace record.
.PP
The output format is inscrutable and should be described
here.
