.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: ttyconfig.8 1.8 90/05/22 $
.TH TTYCONFIG 8 "\*(V)" "DYNIX"
.SH NAME
ttyconfig \- configure Systech tty lines
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B /usr/etc/ttyconfig \c
\f2ttyname\f1 [\f2-q\f1] [\f2-wiring\f1] [\f2-linetype\f1]
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I ttyconfig
changes
.I configuration attributes
associated with
.I ttyname
to facilitate use of auto-dial modems on Systech lines
for
.I both
dial-in and dial-out without requiring changes to
the modem switches or cables.
See
.IR st (4)
for the special re-wiring required to use
.IR ttyconfig .
.PP
The options for
.I -wiring
are:
.TP 5
.B -normal
Cable wiring is standard.
.TP 5
.B -special
This attribute informs the Systech driver that the
cable wiring has been modified such that the Systech output
RTS (pin 4) is looped back to Systech input DCD (pin 8) and
the modem output DCD (pin 8) is connected to Systech input DSR (pin 6).
This modification is necessary due to a Systech hardware restriction
that disables the USART receiver when DCD (pin 8) is not asserted.
See
.IR st (4)
for more information on how to specially
wire the modem to the DYNIX system.
.PP
The options for
.I -linetype
are:
.TP 5
.B -carrier
The behavior of calls to
.IR open(2)
on
.I ttyname
depends on which of the two wiring modes
has been selected.
In normal mode, calls to
.I open
block waiting for
DCD (pin 8) to be asserted.
When special mode is selected,
.IR open
blocks waiting for DSR (pin 6) to be asserted.
Use the 
.B -carrier
attribute to enable a login on this line.
.TP 5
.B -nocarrier
Calls to
.I open
on
.I ttyname
always complete immediately.
Use this attribute to communicate with
an auto-dial modem for programs like
.IR tip (1)
or
.IR uucp (1).
.PP
The
.I -q
flag prevents 
.I ttyconfig
from writing completion status to standard output.
.PP
To change a specially wired dial-in line to a dial-out line:
.nf
	% ed ttys (to disable logins on ttyname)
	% kill -HUP 1
	% ttyconfig ttyname -special -nocarrier
	% chmod 666 ttyname
.fi
.PP
To change a specially wired dial-out line to a dial-in line:
.nf
	% ttyconfig ttyname -special -carrier
	% ed ttys (to enable logins on ttyname)
	% kill -HUP 1
.fi
.PP
If only one argument is given,
no change occurs and the current attributes for
.I ttyname
are displayed.
It is illegal to specify both the
.B -normal
and
.B -nocarrier
options.
No
.IR open s
on
.I ttyname
are allowed when
.IR ttyconfig (8)
is invoked.
Since this program writes on
.IR /dev/kmem ,
you must run it as the super-user when changing attributes.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
st(4), tip(1), ttys(5)
.SH "BUGS"
This program works only for Systech tty lines.
Two options must be specified when setting any attributes on the specified line.
