.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: tunefs.8 1.8 87/06/18 $
.TH TUNEFS 8 "\*(V)" "4BSD"
.SH NAME
tunefs \- tune up an existing file system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/etc/tunefs
.I tuneup-options
.IR special | filesys
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Tunefs
changes the dynamic layout parameters of a file system.
The parameters are:
.IP "\f3\-a\f2 maxcontig\fP"
.br
The maximum number of contiguous blocks that
are laid out before forcing a rotational delay (see
.BR \-d ).
The default value is one, since most device drivers require
an interrupt per disk transfer.
Device drivers that can chain several buffers together in a single
transfer should set this to the maximum chain length.
.IP "\f3\-d\f2 rotdelay\fP"
.br
The expected time (in milliseconds) to service a transfer completion
interrupt and initiate a new transfer on the same disk.
.I Rotdelay
is also a factor in the rotational spacing between
successive blocks in a file.
.IP "\f3\-e\f2 maxbpg\fP"
.br
The maximum number of blocks a file can
be allocated out of a cylinder group before it is
allocated blocks from another cylinder group.
Typically this is one-fourth of the number of blocks in a cylinder group.
This prevents all of the blocks in a single cylinder group
from being allocated to one file,
which degrades the access time for all other files allocated 
to that cylinder group.
This increases the number of long seeks on large files,
For file systems with large files exclusively,
.I maxbpg
should be set higher.
.IP "\f3\-m\f2 minfree\fP"
.br
The percentage of space withheld
from normal users; the minimum free-space threshold.
The default value is 10%.
This value can be set to zero; however,
throughput at a level of zero is approximately
one-third of the throughput at a 10% threshold.
Note that if the value is raised above the current usage level,
users will be unable to allocate files until enough files have
been deleted to get under the higher threshold.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
fs(5),
mkfs(8),
newfs(8),
.I "A Fast File System for Unix"
.SH BUGS
.I Tunefs
should work on mounted and active file systems.
Because the super-block is not kept in the buffer cache,
the changes take effect only if
.I tunefs
is run on dismounted file systems.
If
.I tunefs
is run on the root file system,
the system must be rebooted.
