.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986 Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.
.\" All rights reserved
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: usclk_conf.8 1.3 87/04/13 $
.TH USCLK_CONF 8 "\*(V)" "DYNIX"
.SH NAME
usclk_conf \- microsecond clock confidence test
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B usclk_conf
.SH DESCRIPTION
On Balance systems,
the
.I usclk_conf
confidence test checks the data path to the
microsecond clock and reports
the result.
On either the Balance or Symmetry system,
.I usclk_conf
next reports the current reading of
the microsecond clock,
then sleeps for about a minute, and finally reports the
new reading as a check on the clock's accuracy.
.SH "DIAGNOSTICS"
On Balance systems,
.I usclk_conf
indicates errors if the microsecond clock facility is not properly installed,
not accessible,
or if the data path fails its test.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
getusclk(3)
.SH BUGS
On Balance systems,
there is a very low but non-zero probability that this test will cause
a \s-2DYNIX\s0 panic if the microsecond clock
facility is incorrectly installed (e.g.,
an incorrect \s-2MULTIBUS\s0 identification number is given at install time,
or the microsecond clock board is not fully seated in the
\s-2MULTIBUS\s0 backplane).
