.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: uuclean.8c 1.5 87/05/27 $
.TH UUCLEAN 8C "\*(V)" "4BSD"
.\"
.\"	@(#)uuclean.8c	6.3 (Berkeley) 4/24/86
.\"
.UC 5
.SH NAME
uuclean \- uucp spool directory clean-up
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/lib/uucp/uuclean
[
.B -m
] [
.BI -n time
] [
.BI -p pre
] [
.BI -d subdirectory
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Uuclean
will scan the spool directory for files with the
specified prefix and delete all those which are
older than the specified number of hours.
.PP
The following options are available.
.TP 8
.BI \-p pre
Scan for files with
.I pre
as the file prefix.
Up to 10
.B \-p
arguments may be specified.
.TP
.BI \-n time
Files whose age is more than
.I time
hours will be deleted if the prefix
test is satisfied.
(default time is 72 hours)
.TP 8
.B \-m
Send mail to the owner of the file
when it is deleted.
.TP
.BI \-d subdirectory
Only the specified subdirectory will be cleaned.
.PP
This program will typically be run daily by
.IR cron (8).
.SH FILES
.TP 22
/usr/spool/uucp
Spool directory
.SH SEE ALSO
uucp(1C), uux(1C), uucico(8C)
