.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: uuxqt.8c 1.1 87/05/27 $
.TH UUXQT 8C "\*(V)" "4BSD"
.\"
.\"	@(#)uuxqt.8c	6.1 (Berkeley) 4/24/86
.\"
.UC 6
.SH NAME
uuxqt \- \s-1UUCP\s+1 execution file interpreter
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/lib/uucp/uuxqt
[
.BI \-x debug
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Uuxqt
interprets
.I "execution files"
created on a remote system via
.IR uux (1C)
and transferred to the local system via
.IR uucico (8C).
When a user uses
.I uux
to request remote command execution, it is
.I uuxqt
that actually executes the command. 
Normally,
.I uuxqt
is forked from
.I uucico
to process queued execution files;
for debugging, it may also be run manually by the \s-1UUCP\s+1 administrator.
.PP
.I Uuxqt
runs in its own subdirectory,
.IR /usr/spool/uucp/XTMP .
It copies intermediate files to this directory when necessary.
.SH FILES
.ta \w'/usr/spool/uucp/LCK/LCK.XQT   'u
.nf
/usr/lib/uucp/L.cmds	Remote command permissions list
/usr/lib/uucp/USERFILE	Remote directory tree permissions list
/usr/spool/uucp/LOGFILE	UUCP system activity log
/usr/spool/uucp/LCK/LCK.XQT	\fIUuxqt\fP lock file
/usr/spool/uucp/X./	Incoming execution file directory
/usr/spool/uucp/XTMP	\fIUuxqt\fP running directory
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
uucp(1C), uux(1C), L.cmds(5), USERFILE(5), uucico(8C)
