.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: environ.7 1.8 86/06/26 $
.TH ENVIRON 7 "\*(V)" "4BSD"
.SH NAME
environ \- user environment
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B extern char **environ;
.SH DESCRIPTION
An array of strings called the \*(lqenvironment\*(rq is made available by
.IR execve (2)
when a process begins.  By convention these strings have the form
.RI ` name = value '.
The following names are used by various commands:
.TP "\w'MANTROFF 'u"
PATH
The sequence of directory prefixes that
.I sh, time,
.IR nice (1),
etc., apply in searching for a file known by an incomplete path name.
The prefixes are separated by `:'.
.IR Login (1)
sets PATH=:/usr/ucb:/bin:/usr/bin.
.TP
ATTPATH, UCBPATH
The value of PATH when changing to the corresponding universe.
.IR Login (1)
sets
ATTPATH=:/bin:/usr/bin and UCBPATH=:/usr/ucb:/bin:/usr/bin.  See
.IR universe (1).
.TP
HOME
A user's login directory, set by
.IR login (1)
from
the password file
.IR passwd (5).
.TP
TERM
The kind of terminal for which output is to be prepared.
This information is used by commands, such as
.IR nroff (1)
or
.IR plot (1G),
which may exploit special terminal capabilities.
See
.I /etc/termcap
.RI ( termcap (5))
for a list of terminal types.
.TP
SHELL
The file name of the users login shell.
.TP
ATTSHELL, UCBSHELL
The value of SHELL when changing to the corresponding universe.
Set by
.IR login (1)
from the shell specified in
the password file.
See
.IR universe (1).
.TP
TERMCAP
The string describing the terminal in TERM, or the name of the termcap file.
See
.IR termcap (5)
and
.IR termcap (3X).
.TP
EXINIT
A startup list of commands read by
.IR ex (1),
.IR edit (1),
and
.IR vi (1).
.TP
USER
The login name of the user.
.TP
LOGNAME
The login name of the user (the same as USER)
used by
programs in the
.I att
universe.
.TP
MAIL
The pathname of the users mailbox.
.TP
PRINTER
The name of the default printer to be used by
.IR lpr (1),
.IR lpq (1),
and
.IR lprm (1).
.TP
TZ
Time zone information.
The format is 
\f2sssnddd\f1
where
.I sss
is the standard local time zone abbreviation,
.I n
is the difference in hours from GMT,
and
.I ddd
is the abbreviation for the local daylight-savings
time zone (if any), for example
EST5EDT or PST8PDT.
.TP
MANTROFF
A string used by
.IR man (1)
to format a manual page using
.IR troff (1).
See
.IR man (1).
.TP
PAGER
The crt paginator used by
.IR man (1)
instead of
.IR more (1).
See
.IR man (1).
.TP
PARALLEL
The default parallel factor used by
.IR sh (1),
.IR make (1),
.IR lint (1),
and
.IR apply (1).
.PP
Further names may be placed in the environment by the
.I export
command and `name=value' arguments in
.IR sh (1),
or by the
.I setenv
command if you use
.IR csh (1).
Arguments may also be placed in the environment at the point of an
.IR execve (2).
It is unwise to conflict with certain 
.IR sh (1)
variables that are frequently exported by `.profile' files:
PS1, PS2, IFS.
.SH SEE ALSO
csh(1),
ex(1),
login(1),
sh(1),
universe(1),
execve(2),
system(3),
termcap(3X),
termcap(5)
