.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: mailaddr.7 1.5 90/03/20 $
.\"	@(#)mailaddr.7	4.1		7/28/83
.TH MAILADDR 7 "\*(V)" "4BSD"
.SH NAME
mailaddr \- mail addressing description
.SH DESCRIPTION
Mail addresses are based on the ARPANET protocol
listed at the end of this manual page.
These addresses are in the general format
.PP
		user@domain
.PP
where a domain is a hierarchical list of subdomains separated by dots.
For example,
the following address is normally interpreted from right to left:
.PP
		eric@monet.Berkeley.ARPA
.PP
the message should go to the ARPA name tables
(which do not correspond exactly to the physical ARPANET),
then to the Berkeley gateway,
after which it should go to the local host, monet.
When the message reaches monet, it is delivered to the user eric.
.PP
Unlike some other forms of addressing,
this does not imply any routing.
Thus,
although this address is specified as an ARPA address,
it might travel by an alternate route
if that was more convenient or efficient.
For example,
at Berkeley the associated message
would probably go directly to monet over the Ethernet
rather than going via the Berkeley ARPANET gateway.
.PP
.I Abbreviation.
Under certain circumstances
it may not be necessary to type the entire domain name.
In general anything following the first dot
may be omitted
if it is the same as the domain from which you are sending the message.
For example,
a user on
calder.Berkeley.ARPA
could send to
eric@monet
without adding 
.Berkeley.ARPA
since it is the same on both sending and receiving hosts.
.PP
Certain other abbreviations may be permitted
as special cases.
For example,
at Berkeley ARPANET hosts can be referenced
without adding 
.ARPA
as long as their names do not conflict
with a local hostname.
.PP
.I Compatibility.
Certain old address formats
are converted to the new format
to provide compatibility with the previous mail system.
In particular, host:user is converted to user@host for consistency
with the 
.BR rcp (1c)
command.
.PP
Also, host!user is converted to user@host.UUCP 
This is normally converted back to 
host!user
before being sent on for compatibility with older UUCP hosts.
.PP
The current implementation is not able to route messages
automatically through the UUCP network.
Until that time you must explicitly tell the mail system
which hosts to send your message through
to get to your final destination.
.PP
.I Case Distinctions.
Domain names (i.e., anything after the at sign (@))
may be given in any mixture of upper- and lowercase
with the exception of UUCP hostnames.
Most hosts accept any mixture of case in user names,
with the notable exception of MULTICS sites.
.PP
.I Differences with ARPA Protocols.
Although the UNIX addressing scheme
is based on the ARPA mail addressing protocols,
there are some significant differences.
.PP
At the time of this writing
the only
``top level''
domain defined by ARPA is the
``.ARPA''
domain itself.
This is further restricted to having only one level of host specifier.
That is,
the only addresses that ARPA accepts at this time must be in the following 
format:
.PP
user@host.ARPA
.PP
(where \f2host\f1 is one word).
In particular,
addresses such as the following are not legal under the ARPA protocols:
.PP
		eric@monet.Berkeley.ARPA
.PP
For this reason,
these addresses are converted to a different format on output
to the ARPANET,
typically as follows:
.PP
		eric%monet@Berkeley.ARPA
.PP
.I Route-addrs.
Under some circumstances
it may be necessary to route a message
through several hosts
to get it to the final destination.
Normally this routing is done automatically,
but sometimes it is desirable to route the message manually.
Addresses that show these relays are called
\f2route-addrs\f1.
These use the syntax:
.PP
		<@hosta,@hostb:user@hostc>
.PP
This specifies that the message should be sent to hosta,
from there to hostb,
and finally to hostc.
This path is forced
even if there is a more efficient path
to hostc.
.PP
Route-addrs
occur frequently on return addresses,
since these are generally augmented by the software
at each host.
It is generally possible to ignore all but the
``user@host''
part of the address to determine the actual sender.
.PP
.I Postmaster.
Every site is required to have a user or user alias
designated
``postmaster''
to which problems with the mail system may be addressed.
.PP
.I CSNET.
Messages to CSNET sites can be sent to
``user.host@UDel-Relay''.
.SH BERKELEY
The following comments apply only to the Berkeley environment.
.PP
.I Hostnames.
Many of the old familiar hostnames
are being phased out.
In particular,
single character names as used in Berknet
are incompatible with the larger world
of which Berkeley is now a member.
For this reason
the following names
are being obsoleted.
You should notify any correspondents
of your new address
as soon as possible.
.PP
.TS
tab (!);
l l l.
OLD!NEW
j!ingvax!ucbingres
p!ucbcad
r!arpavax!ucbarpa
v!csvax!ucbernie
n!ucbkim
y!ucbcory
.TE
.PP
The old addresses will be rejected as unknown hosts
sometime in the near future.
.PP
.I What's My Address?
If you are on a local machine, say, monet, your address is as follows:
.PP
		yourname@monet.Berkeley.ARPA
.PP
However, since most of the world does not have the new software
in place yet, you will have to give correspondents slightly different addresses.
From the ARPANET, your address would be this:
.PP
		yourname%monet@Berkeley.ARPA
.PP
From UUCP, your address would be this:
.PP
		ucbvax!yourname%monet
.PP
.I Computer Center.
The Berkeley Computer Center is in a subdomain of Berkeley.  Messages to the
computer center should be addressed as follows:
.PP
		user%host.CC@Berkeley.ARPA
.PP
If the message is sent from inside Berkeley, the alternate syntax may be used:
.PP
		user@host.CC
.PP
For the time being, Computer Center hosts are known within the Berkeley
domain, i.e., the .CC is optional.  However, it is likely that this
situation will change as both the Computer Science department and the
Computer Center grow.
.PP
.I Bitnet.
Hosts on bitnet may be accessed using this:
.PP
		user@host.BITNET
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
mail(1), sendmail(8);
Crocker, D. H.,
.ul
Standard for the Format of Arpa Internet Text Messages,
RFC822.
