.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: man.7 1.9 86/08/19 $
.TH MAN 7 "\*(V)" "7th Edition"
.SH NAME
man \- macros to typeset manual
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B
nroff  \-man\ 
file ...
.PP
.B
troff  \-man\ 
file ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
These macros are used to lay out pages of this manual.
A skeleton page may be found in the file 
/usr/man/man0/xx.
.PP
Any text argument
.I t
may be zero to six words.
Quotes may be used to include blanks in a `word'.
If 
.I text
is empty,
the special treatment is applied to
the next input line with text to be printed.
In this way
.BR . I
may be used to italicize a whole line, or
.BR . SM
followed by
.BR . B
to make small bold letters.
.PP
A prevailing indent distance is remembered between
successive indented paragraphs,
and is reset to default value upon reaching a non-indented paragraph.
Default units for indents
.I i
are ens.
.PP
Type font and size are reset to default values
before each paragraph, and after processing
font and size setting macros.
.PP
These strings are predefined by
.BR \-man :
.IP \e*R
.if t `\*R', `(Reg)' in
.if t .I nroff.
.if n `(Reg)', trademark symbol in
.if n .I troff.
.IP \e*S
Change to default type size.
.SH FILES
/usr/lib/tmac/tmac.an
.br
/usr/man/man0/xx
.SH SEE ALSO
troff(1), man(1)
.SH BUGS
Relative indents don't nest.
.SH REQUESTS
The following list is summary of the macros used to format DYNIX man pages.
.sp
.ta \w'.TH n c x v m'u +\w'Cause 'u +\w'Argument\ 'u
.di xx
			\ka
.br
.di
.in \nau
.ti0
Request	Cause	If no	Explanation
.ti0
	Break	Argument
.ti0
.li
\&.B \f2t\f1	no	\f2t\f1=n.t.l.*	Text
.I t
is bold.
.ti0
.li
\&.BI \f2t\f1	no	\f2t\f1=n.t.l.	Join
words of
.I t
alternating bold and italic.
.ti0
.li
\&.BR \f2t\f1	no	\f2t\f1=n.t.l.	Join
words of
.I t
alternating bold and Roman.
.ti0
.li
\&.DT	no	.5i 1i...	Restore default tabs.
.ti0
.li
\&.HP \f2i\f1	yes	\f2i\f1=p.i.*	Set prevailing indent to
.I i.
Begin paragraph with hanging indent.
.ti0
.li
\&.I \f2t\f1	no	\f2t\f1=n.t.l.	Text
.I t
is italic.
.ti0
.li
\&.IB \f2t\f1	no	\f2t\f1=n.t.l.	Join
words of
.I t
alternating italic and bold.
.ti0
.li
\&.IP \f2x i\f1	yes	\f2x\f1=""	Same as .TP with tag
.I x.
.ti0
.li
\&.IR \f2t\f1	no	\f2t\f1=n.t.l.	Join
words of
.I t
alternating italic and Roman.
.ti0
.li
\&.LP	yes	-	Same as .PP.
.ti0
.li
\&.PD \f2d\f1	no	\f2d\f1=.4v	Interparagraph distance is 
.I d.
.ti0
.li
\&.PP	yes	-	Begin paragraph.
Set prevailing indent to .5i.
.ti0
.li
\&.RE	yes	-	End of relative indent.
Set prevailing indent to amount of starting .RS.
.ti0
.li
\&.RB \f2t\f1	no	\f2t\f1=n.t.l.	Join
words of
.I t
alternating Roman and bold.
.ti0
.li
\&.RI \f2t\f1	no	\f2t\f1=n.t.l.	Join
words of
.I t
alternating Roman and italic.
.ti0
.li
\&.RS \f2i\f1	yes	\f2i\f1=p.i.	Start relative indent,
move left margin in distance
.I i.
Set prevailing indent to .5i for nested indents.
.ti0
.li
\&.SH \f2t\f1	yes	\f2t\f1=n.t.l.	Section heading.
.ti0
.li
\&.SM \f2t\f1	no	\f2t\f1=n.t.l.	Text
.I t
is small.
.ti0
.li
\&.SS \f2i\f1	yes	\f2i\f1=p.i.	Subsection heading.
.ti0
.li
\&.TH \f2n c x v m\f1	yes	-	Begin page named
.I n
of chapter
.IR c;
.I x
is extra commentary, e.g. `local', for page foot center;
.I v
alters page foot left, e.g. `4th Berkeley Distribution';
.I m
alters page head center, e.g. `Brand X Programmer's Manual'.
Set prevailing indent and tabs to .5i.
.ti0
.li
\&.TP \f2i\f1	yes	\f2i\f1=p.i.	Set prevailing indent to
.I i.
Begin indented paragraph
with hanging tag given by next text line.
If tag doesn't fit, place it on separate line.
.ti0
.li
\&.V=	no	-	Take rcs Header as argument,
and set the V) string to the date and revision number
(arguments 3 and 4).
.PP
.ti0
* n.t.l. = next text line; p.i. = prevailing indent
