.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: as.1 1.16 87/08/05 $
.TH AS 1 "\*(V)" "DYNIX"
.SH NAME
as \- Sequent assembler
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B as
[
.B \-L
] [
.B \-W
] [
.B \-R
] [
.B \-o
objfile ] [ name ... ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I As
assembles the named files,
or the standard input if no file name is specified.
For the Balance series,
.I as
assembles National 32032 assembly language code;
for the Symmetry series,
.I as
assembles Intel 80386 assembly language code.
The available flags are:
.TP
.B \-L
Save the compiler generated labels beginning with `L'.
Normally,
these labels are discarded to save space in the resultant symbol table.
.TP
.B \-W
Do not complain about errors.
.TP
.B \-R
Make initialized data segments read-only,
by concatenating them to the text segments.
This eliminates the need to run editor scripts on assembly
code to make initialized data read-only and shared.
.TP
.BI \-o " objfile"
Save the output of the assembly on the file
.I objfile.
If this flag is not used,
the output of the assembly is left on the file
.I a.out.
.PP
All undefined symbols in the assembly are treated as global.
.SH FILES
.ta 1.5i
/tmp/as\(**	default temporary files
.br
a.out		default resultant object file
.SH "SEE ALSO"
ld(1),
nm(1),
ddt(1) (Balance only),
dbx(1),
a.out(5),
.br
.I "Balance Assembler User's Manual"
.br
.I "Symmetry Assembler User's Manual"
