.\" $Copyright: $
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: cat.1 1.6 1991/08/07 00:30:25 $
.TH CAT 1 "\*(V)" "4BSD"
.SH NAME
cat \- catenate and print
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cat
[
.B \-u
] [
.B \-n
] [
.B \-s
] [
.B \-v
] [
.B \-e
] [
.B \-b
] [
.B \-t
]
file ...
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Cat
reads each
.I file
in sequence and displays it on the standard output.  Thus
.PP
.ti+15n
cat file
.PP
displays the file on the standard output, and
.PP
.ti+15n
cat file1 file2 >file3
.PP
concatenates the first two files and places the result on the third.
.PP
If no input file is given, or if the argument `\-' is encountered,
.I cat
reads from the standard input file.
Output is buffered in 1024-byte blocks.
The
.B \-u
option makes the output completely unbuffered.
.PP
The
.B \-n
option displays the output lines preceded by lines numbers, numbered
sequentially from 1.  Specifying the 
.B \-b
option with the
.B \-n
option omits the line numbers from blank lines.
.PP
The
.B \-s
option crushes out multiple adjacent empty lines so that the
output is displayed single spaced.
.PP
The
.B \-v
option displays non-printing characters so that they are visible.
Control characters print like ^X for control-x; the delete character
(octal 0177) prints as ^?.
Non-ascii characters (with the high bit set) are printed as M-
(for meta) followed by the character of the low 7 bits.  A
.B \-e
option may be given with the
.B \-v
option, which displays a `$' character at the end of each line.
Specifying the 
.B \-t
option with the
.B \-v
option displays tab characters as ^I.
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
cp(1), ex(1), more(1), pr(1), tail(1)
.SH BUGS
Beware of `cat a b >a' and `cat a b >b', which destroy
the input files before reading them.
