.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: chfn.1 1.6 86/05/13 $
.TH CHFN 1 "\*(V)" "4BSD/DYNIX"
.SH NAME
chfn \- change finger entry
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B chfn
[loginname]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Chfn
is used to change information about users.  This information is used
by the finger program, among others.
It consists of the user's
"real life" name, office room number, office phone number,
home phone number, and default login universe.
.I Chfn
prompts the user for each field.
Included in the prompt is a default value,
which is enclosed between brackets.
The default value is accepted simply by typing <return>.
To enter a blank field,
type the word 'none'.
Below is a sample run:
.IP
.B "Name [Biff Studsworth II]:"
.br
.B "Room number []:"
521E
.br
.B "Office Phone []:"
1863
.br
.B "Home Phone [5771546]:"
none
.br
.B "Universe [ucb]:"
.sp
.PP
.I Chfn
allows phone numbers to be entered with or without hyphens.
.PP
It is a good idea to run finger after running
.I chfn
to make sure everything is the way you want it.
.PP
The optional argument
.B loginname
is used to change another person's finger information.
This can only be done by the super-user.
.SH FILES
/etc/passwd, /etc/ptmp
.SH SEE\ ALSO
finger(1), passwd(5)
.SH BUGS
For historical reasons, the user's name, etc are stored in the passwd file.
This is a bad place to store the information. 
.PP
Because two users may try to write the passwd file at once, a synchronization
method was developed.
On rare occasions, a message that the password file
is ``busy'' will be printed.
In this case,
.I chfn
sleeps for a while and then tries to write to the passwd file again.
