.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: colcrt.1 1.5 86/05/13 $
.TH COLCRT 1 "\*(V)" "3BSD"
.SH NAME
colcrt \- filter nroff output for CRT previewing
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B colcrt
[
.B \-
] [
.B \-2
] [
file ...
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Colcrt
provides virtual half-line and reverse line feed sequences
for terminals without such capability, and on which overstriking
is destructive.
Half-line characters and underlining (changed to dashing `\-')
are placed on new lines in between the normal output lines.
.PP
The optional
.B \- 
suppresses all underlining.
It is especially useful for previewing
.I allboxed
tables from
.IR  tbl (1).
.PP
The option
.B \-2
causes all half-lines to be printed, effectively double spacing the output.
Normally, a minimal space output format is used which will suppress empty
lines.
The program never suppresses two consecutive empty lines, however.
The
.B \-2
option is useful for sending output to the line printer when the output
contains superscripts and subscripts which would otherwise be invisible.
.PP
A typical use of
.I colcrt
would be
.PP
.DT
	tbl exum2.n | nroff \-ms | colcrt \- | more
.SH "SEE ALSO"
nroff/troff(1), col(1), more(1), ul(1)
.SH AUTHOR
William Joy
.SH BUGS
Should fold underlines onto blanks even with the
`\f3\-\f1'
option so that
a true underline character would show; if we did this, however,
.I colcrt
wouldn't get rid of
.I cu'd
underlining
completely.
.PP
Can't back up more than 102 lines.
.PP
General overstriking is lost;
as a special case `|' overstruck with `\-' or underline becomes `+'.
.PP
Lines are trimmed to 132 characters.
.PP
Some provision should be made for processing superscripts and subscripts
in documents which are already double-spaced.
