.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: date.1 1.5 86/05/13 $
.TH DATE 1 "\*(V)" "4BSD"
.SH NAME
date \- print and set the date
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B date
.RB "[ -u ] [ yymmddhhmm [ " . "ss ] ]"
.SH DESCRIPTION
If no arguments are given, the current date and time are printed.
If a date is specified, the current date is set.
The
.I -u
flag is used to display the date in GMT (universal) time.
This flag may also be used to set GMT time.
.I yy
is the last two digits of the year;
the first
.I mm
is the month number;
.I dd
is the day number in the month;
.I hh
is the hour number (24 hour system);
the second
.I mm
is the minute number;
.BI . ss
is optional and is the seconds.
For example:
.IP
date 10080045
.PP
sets the date to Oct 8, 12:45 AM.
The year, month and day may be omitted, the current
values being the defaults.
The system operates in GMT.
.I Date
takes care of the conversion to and from
local standard and daylight time.
.SH FILES
/usr/adm/wtmp to record time-setting
.SH SEE ALSO
utmp(5)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
`Failed to set date: Not owner' if you try to change the date
but are not the super-user.
