.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
.\"
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: df.1 1.7 90/05/31 $
.TH DF 1 "\*(V)" "4BSD"
.SH NAME
df \- report free disk space on file systems
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B df
[
.B \-i
] [
.B \-t
\f2type\f1 ] [ \f2filesystem\f1 ... ] [ \f2filename\f1 ... ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I df
displays the amount of disk space occupied by currently
mounted file systems, the amount of used and available
space, and how much of the file system's total capacity
has been used.
Used without arguments, df reports on all
mounted file systems, producing something like:
.DS
.nf
.sp 1
	tutorial% df
	Filesystem    kbytes    used   avail capacity  Mounted on
	/dev/zd0a       7735    6231     730    90%    /
	/dev/zd1a       7735     491    6470     7%    /tmp
.sp 1
.fi
.DE
.PP
Note that used+avail is less than the amount of space in the
file system (kbytes); this is because the system reserves a
fraction of the space in the file system to allow its file
system allocation routines to work well.
The amount reserved is typically 10%; this may be adjusted
using
.IR tunefs (8).
When all the space on a file system except for this
reserve is in use, only the super-user can allocate new
files and data blocks to existing files.
When a file system is overallocated in this way,
.I df
may report that the file system is more than 100% utilized.
.PP
If arguments to
.I df
are disk partitions (for example,
.IR /dev/zd0a )
or UNIX path names,
.I df
produces a report on the file system containing the named file.
Thus ``df .'' shows the amount of space on the file system containing
the current directory.
.PP
If a -1 appears in a given field then that information is not
available for that filesystem.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-i
Report the number of used and free inodes.
.TP
.B \-t \f2type\fP
Report on file systems of a given
.I type
(for example, nfs or 4.2).
.SH FILES
/etc/mtab	list of currently mounted filesystems
.SH "SEE ALSO"
du(1), mtab(5), fstab(5), icheck(8), quot(8)
