.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: diction.1 1.4 86/05/13 $
.TH DICTION 1 "\*(V)" "7th Edition"
.SH NAME
diction,explain \- print wordy sentences; thesaurus for diction
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B diction
[
.B \-ml
] [
.B \-mm
] [
.B \-n
] [
.B \-f
pfile ]
file ...
.br
.B explain
.LP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Diction
finds all sentences in a document that contain phrases
from a data base of bad or wordy diction.
Each phrase is bracketed with [ ].
Because
.I diction
runs
.I deroff
before looking at the text, formatting
header files should be included as part of the input.
The default macro package
.B \-ms
may be overridden with the flag
.B \-mm.
The flag
.B \-ml
which causes 
.B deroff
to skip lists, should be used if the document contains many lists of
non-sentences.
The user may supply her/his own pattern file to be used in addition to the default file
with
.B \-f
.I pfile.
If the flag
.B \-n
is also supplied the default file will be suppressed.
.PP
.I Explain
is an interactive thesaurus for the phrases found by diction.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
deroff(1)
.SH BUGS
Use of non-standard formatting macros may cause
incorrect sentence breaks.
In particular,
.I diction
doesn't grok
.B \-me.
