.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: disas.1 1.7 87/04/22 $
.TH DISAS 1 "\*(V)" "DYNIX"
.SH NAME
disas \- disassemble binary files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B disas
[
.B \-ahmr
] [
.B \-c
.I hex
] [
.B \-b
.I hex
.B \-e
.I hex
] [
.B \-s
name] file
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Disas
disassemblies binary files.
The binary file can be an a.out or an object file (.o).
Input is taken from the specified
.I file
and the disassembly is placed on stdout.
The general format for the output is:
.PP
hex address:  hex representation  symbolic representation
.PP
If symbols are available they will be used in the symbolic representation
where possible and the name of each procedure will be printed before the
beginning of its code.
.PP
The following options are available.
.TP
.B \-a
Suppresses printing of the address before each instruction.
.TP
.BI \-c \ hex
.I Hex
is the maximum distance an address can be from a symbol for it to be
considered relative to that symbol.
The default is 0.
In most cases this only applies to symbols from the data/bss sections.
.TP
.BI \-b \ hex
.I Hex
specifies the address at which to begin disassembly.
.TP
.BI \-e \ hex
.I Hex
specifies the address at which to end disassembly.
.TP
.B \-h
Suppresses printing of hex representation of each instruction.
.TP
.B \-m
Show the raw addressing modes in addition to the symbolic form.
When this flag is specified the operands will be displayed as encoded
in the instruction.
This alternate display of each operand comes
immediately after the symbolic form and is inclosed in angle brackets.
.TP
.B \-r
Show only raw addressing modes as encoded in the instructions.
This inhibits the symbolic representation of operands.
.TP
.BI \-s \ name
This allows the specification of a particular symbol to disassemble.
It must be a text symbol.
Disassembly will start with that symbol
and continue to the next global text symbol or until the end
of the text section, whichever comes first.
There may be multiple occurrences of
.BI \-s \ name
on a command line.
The symbols will be processed in the order they are listed on the
command line.
.PP
Hex values are entered in the standard representation
(as in ``123ab'' or ``00ff00''),
not with a leading ``0x'', as in the C language.
.SH BUGS
The occurrence of data in the text will confuse
.IR disas .
