.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: ex.1 1.13 90/05/30 $
.TH EX 1 "\*(V)" "4BSD/DYNIX"
.SH NAME
e, ex, edit \- text editor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ex
[
.B \-
] [
.B \-v
] [
.B \-t
.I tag
] [
.B \-r
] [
.B \-l
] [
\f3-w\f2n\f1
] [
.B \-x
] [
.B \-R
] [
\f3\+\f2command\f1
]
.I name ...
.br
.B edit
[
ex options
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Ex
is the root of a family of editors:
.B edit,
.B ex,
.B e
and
.B vi.
.B Ex
and
.B e
are synonyms, so all further references to
.B Ex
also apply to
.B e.
.B Ex
is a superset of
.B ed,
with the most notable extension being a display-editing facility.
Display-based editing is the focus of
.B vi.
.PP
If you are a casual user only, or have not used
.B ed,
you will find the editor
.B edit
convenient;
it avoids some of the complexities of
.BR ex ,
which is used mostly by system programmers and people who are familiar with
.B ed.
.PP
If you have a \s-2CRT\s0 terminal, you may wish to use a display-
based editor; in this case
see
.BR vi (1),
which is a command that focuses on the display-editing portion of
.B ex.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP \f3\-\f1
Suppress all interactive-user feedback;
useful in processing editor scripts in command files.
.IP \f3\-v\f1
Equivalent to using
.B vi
rather than
.B ex.
.IP \f3\-t\f1
Equivalent to an initial
.B tag
command, editing the file containing the
.B tag
and positioning the editor at its definition.
.IP \f3\-r\f1
Recover after an editor or system crash,
retrieving the last saved version of the named file or,
if no file is specified,
type a list of saved files.
.IP \f3\-l\f1
Set up for editing \s-2LISP\s0, setting the
.B showmatch
and
.B lisp
options.
.IP \f3\-w\f1
Set the default window size to
.IR n ;
useful on dialups to start in small windows.
.IP \f3\-x\f1
Cause
.B ex
to prompt for a
.I key ,
which is used to encrypt and decrypt the contents of the file.
(The contents of the file should already be encrypted using the same key;
see
.B crypt (1).
.IP \f3\-R\f1
Set the
.B readonly
option at the start.
The
.I name ...
arguments indicate files to be edited.
An argument of the form
\f3+command\f1
indicates that the editor should begin by executing the specified command.
If
.B command
is omitted, then it defaults to $ , positioning the editor at the last
line of the first file initially.  Other useful commands here are scanning
patterns of the form /pat or line numbers, e.g. +100, starting
at line 100.
.SH DOCUMENTATION
The document
.I "Edit: A tutorial"
provides a comprehensive introduction to
.B edit 
and does not assume knowledge of computers or the \s-2UNIX\s0 system.
.PP
The
.I "Ex Reference Manual \- Version 3.5"
is a complete manual for the command-mode features
of
.B ex,
but it does not teach you how to use the editor.
For an introduction to
more advanced forms of editing using the command mode of
.BR ex ,
see the editing documents written by Brian Kernighan for the editor
.BR ed ;
the material in the introductory and advanced documents works also with
.B ex.
.PP
.I "An Introduction to Display Editing with Vi"
introduces the display editor
.B vi
and provides reference material on
it.
All these documents are found in volume 2c of the Programmer's Manual.
In addition, the
.I "Vi Quick Reference"
card summarizes the commands
of
.B vi
and has a helpful
introduction.
.SH FILES
.DT
/usr/lib/ex?.?strings		error messages
.br
/usr/lib/ex?.?recover		recover command
.br
/usr/lib/ex?.?preserve		preserve command
.br
/etc/termcap			describes capabilities of terminals
.br
~/.exrc				editor startup file
.br
/tmp/Vi\f2nnnnnn\f1			editor temporary
.br
/tmp/Ri\f2nnnnnn\f1			named buffer temporary
.br
/usr/preserve			preservation directory
.SH SEE ALSO
awk(1), ed(1), grep(1), sed(1), grep(1), vi(1), termcap(5), environ(7)
.SH AUTHOR
Originally written by William Joy.
.br
Mark Horton has maintained the editor since version 2.7, adding macros,
support for many terminals,
and other features such as word abbreviation mode.
.SH BUGS
The
.B x
command
and
.B \-x
command line option are available only when
the DYNIX Cryptographic Software option has been installed.
.PP
The
.B undo
command causes all marks to be lost on lines changed and then restored
if the marked lines were changed.
.PP
.B Undo
never clears the buffer modified condition.
.PP
The
.B z
command prints a number of logical rather than physical lines.
More than a screen full of output may result if long lines are present.
.PP
File input/output errors don't print a name if the command line \f3`\-'\f1
option is used.
.PP
There is no easy way to do a single scan ignoring case.
.PP
The editor does not warn if text is placed in named buffers and not used
before you exit the editor.
.PP
Null characters are discarded in input files and cannot appear in resultant
files.
