.\" $Copyright: $
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: find.1 1.23 1991/06/12 21:17:40 $
.\" @(#)find.1 1.1 85/12/28 SMI;
.TH FIND 1  "\*(V)" "4BSD"
.SH NAME
find \- find files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B find
.I pathname-list  
.I expression
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\".IX "find command"  ""  "\f2find\fP \(em find files"
.\".IX files  find
.\".IX "search for files"
\f3Find\f1 recursively descends the directory hierarchy for each 
pathname in the
.I pathname-list
(that is, one or more pathnames) 
seeking files that match a Boolean
expression
written in the primaries given below.
Expressions are evaluated from left to right.
In the descriptions, the argument
.I n
is used as a decimal integer 
where +n means more than n, -n, means less than 
n, and n means exactly n.
.IP "\f3\-fstype \f2type\f1" 1i
True if the filesystem to which the
the file belongs is of type
.IR type ,
where
.I type
is typically
.B 4.2
or
.B nfs
.IP "\f3\-name \f2filename\f1" 
True if the
.I filename
argument matches the current filename.
Normal shell argument syntax may be used if escaped (watch out for
[, ? and *).
.IP "\f3\-perm \f2onum\f1"
True if the file permission flags exactly match the octal number
.I onum
(see \f3chmod\f1(1)).
If
.I onum
is prefixed by a minus sign, more flag bits (017777, see
\f3chmod\f1(1))
become significant and the flags are compared:
.IR (flags&onum)==onum .
.IP \f3\-prune
Always returns true.
Also prunes the search
tree at the file.
That is, if the current pathname is a directory,
.B find
does not descend into that directory.
.IP "\f3\-type \f2c\f1"
True 
where
.I c
has one of the following meanings:
.RS
.IP \f3b\f1 1.5i
block special file
.IP \f3c\f1
character special file
.IP \f3d\f1
directory
.IP \f3f\f1
plain file
.IP  \f3l\f1
symbolic link
.RE
.IP "\f3\-links \f2n\f1"
True if the file has
.I n
links
.IP "\f3\-user \f2uname\f1"
True if the file belongs to the user
.I uname
(login name or numeric user ID)
.IP "\f3\-group \f2gname\f1"
True if the file belongs to group
.I gname
(group name or numeric group ID)
.IP "\f3\-size \f2n\f1"
True if the file is
.I n
blocks long (512 bytes per block)
.IP "\f3\-inum \f2n\f1"
True if the file has inode number
.IR n 
.IP "\f3\-atime \f2n\f1"
True if the file has been accessed in
.I n
days
.IP "\f3\-mtime \f2n\f1"
True if the file has been modified in
.I n
days.  (
.I n
starts at zero.  See examples below for more details of this
switch.)
.IP "\f3\-exec \f2command\f1"
True if the executed command returns a zero value as exit status.
The end of the command must be punctuated by an escaped semicolon.
A command argument
.B {}
is replaced by the current pathname.
.IP "\f3\-ok \f2command\f1"
Like
.B \-exec
except that the generated command is written on
the standard output. The standard input is read
and the command is executed only upon response
.BR y .
.IP \f3\-print\f1
Always true; the current pathname is printed.
.IP "\f3\-newer \f2file\f1"
True if the current file has been modified more recently than the 
argument
.IP "\f3\-cpio  \f2file\f1"
Write the current file on the argument
.I file
in
.I cpio
format.
.IR file 
.LP
The primaries may be combined using the following operators
(in order of decreasing precedence):
.IP "\f3( \f1\|.\|.\|.\f3 )\f1"
A group of primaries and operators enclosed in parentheses.
Parentheses are special to the shell and must be escaped.
You must leave at least one space between the parentheses and
the group of primaries and operators.
.IP \f3!\f2primary\f1
The negation of a primary (! is the unary
.I not
operator)
.IP "\f2primary\f1 [\f3\-a\f1] \f2primary\f1"
Concatenation of primaries.
The
.I and
operation is implied by the juxtaposition of two primaries,
but can be explicitly specified with the
.I \-a
operator.
.IP "\f2primary \f3\-o \f2primary\f1"
Alternation of primaries
(\f3\-o\f1 is the
.I or
operator)
.SH EXAMPLES
To recursively find all the filenames, starting from \f2/usr/man/man2\f1,
that have been updated
since the creation of the file \f2TIMESTAMP\f1, 
enter this command:
.Ps
find /usr/man/man2 \-newer /usr/man/man2/TIMESTAMP \-print
.Pe
To recursively print all filenames starting from the current directory,
but skipping the directory
.IR SCCS ,
enter this command:
.Ps
find . -name SCCS -prune -o -print
.Pe
To recursively remove all files named
.B a.out
or
.B *.o
that have not been accessed for a week starting from the current directory,
enter this command:
.Ps
find . \\( \-name a.out \-o \-name '*.o' \\) \-atime +7 \-exec rm {} \\;
.Pe
To recursively display the names of all files named
.B a.out
and with permissions 640 starting from the current directory,
enter this command:
.Ps
find . \\( \-name a.out \-a \-perm 640 \\) \-print
.Pe
or enter this command:
.Ps
find . \-name a.out \-a \-perm 640 \-print
.Pe
Note that \f3\-a\f1 is not necessary in either case.
.sp
To display the names of all files modified greater than 24 hours ago, enter
this command:
.Ps
find . -mtime +0 -print
.Pe
To display the names of all files modified between 0 and 24 hours ago, enter
this command:
.Ps
find . -mtime 0 -print
.Pe
To display the names of all files modified greater than 48 hours ago, enter
this command:
.Ps
find . -mtime +1 -print
.Pe
To display the names of all files modified between 24 and 48 hours ago, enter
this command:
.Ps
find . -mtime 1 -print
.Pe
.SH FILES
\f2/etc/passwd\f1
.br
\f2/etc/group\f1
.SH "CAVEATS"
The concept of universes is implemented (in part) by using conditional symbolic
links, which are resolved as pointing one of two places,
depending on the current
universe of the user.  Since conditional symbolic links are a special type of
symbolic link,
.B find
treats conditional symbolic links as symbolic links and does not follow the
link.  This can cause confusion when you are using a command 
like this one, because \f2/bin\f1 is a conditional symbolic link:
.Ps
find /bin \-print
.Pe
Use this command to force the conditional symbolic link to be followed:
.Ps
find /bin/ \-print
.Pe
In addition, any
conditional symbolic links found within a directory heirarchy won't be
followed.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
sh(1),
test(1)
