.\" $Copyright: $
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: finger.1 1.13 1991/06/13 18:19:29 $
.TH FINGER 1 "\*(V)" "4BSD"
.SH NAME
f, finger \- user information lookup program
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B f
[
options
]
[
name ...
]
.br
   or
.br
.B finger
[
options
] 
[
name ...
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
By default
.B finger
lists the login name, full name, terminal name, and write status
(producing an asterisk (*) before the terminal name 
if write permission is denied),
idle time, login time, and office location and phone number
(if known) for each current UNIX user.
(Idle time is minutes if a single integer is given, hours and minutes
with a colon (:), or 
days and hours if d is given.)
.PP
A longer format is used 
when a list of people's names is given.  (Account names as well as
first and last names of users are accepted.)
This format is multiline, and includes all the information described above
as well as the user's home
directory, login shell, and login universe,
any plan the user has placed in the file
.I \&.plan
in the home
directory, and the project on which the user is working from the file
.IR \&.project ,
also in the home directory.
.PP
.I Finger
may be used to lookup users on a remote machine.  The format is to specify
the user as ``user@host.''  If the user name is left off, the
standard format listing is provided on the remote machine.  Note that
this feature of
.I finger
only works when invoked with the "-n" flag.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-m
Match arguments only on user name.
.TP
.B \-l
Force long output format.
.TP
.B \-p
Suppress printing of the
.I \&.plan
files.
.TP
.B \-s
Force short output format.
.TP
.B \-q
Give quick list of users.
.TP
.B \-i
Give quick list with idle times.
.TP
.B \-b
Briefer long form list of users.
.TP
.B \-f
Suppress printing of column headings.
.TP
.B \-h
Suppress printing of
.I \&.project
files.
.TP
.B \-w
Narrow short form list of users.
.TP
.B \-n
Act like 4.3 BSD
.I finger,
including network
.I finger
support.  By default
.I finger
will behave as it did in older version of DYNIX.
.SH FILES
.ta 2i
/etc/utmp	who file
.br
/etc/passwd	for users names, offices, ...
.br
/usr/adm/lastlog	last login times
.br
~/.plan	plans
.br
~/.project	projects
.SH "SEE ALSO"
w(1), who(1), chfn(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Earl T. Cohen
.SH BUGS
Only the first line of the
.I .project
file is printed.
.PP
There is no way to pass arguments to the remote machine as
.I finger
uses an internet standard port.
.PP
.I Finger
is not case sensitive.
