.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: fmt.1 1.5 87/02/20 $
.TH FMT 1 "\*(V)" "3BSD"
.SH NAME
fmt \- simple text formatter
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B fmt
[
\f3-\f2width\f1
] [
.I name ...
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Fmt
is a simple text formatter which reads the concatenation of input
files (or standard input if none are given) and produces on
standard output a version of its input with lines as close to
.I width
characters long as possible.
If
.I width
is omitted,
it defaults to 72 characters.
The spacing at the beginning of the input lines is preserved in the output,
as are blank lines and inter-word spacing.
.PP
.I Fmt
is meant to format mail messages prior to sending, but may also be useful
for other simple tasks.
For instance,
within visual mode of the
.I ex
editor (e.g.
.IR vi )
the command
.br
	!}fmt
.br
will reformat a paragraph,
evening the lines.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
nroff(1), mail(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Kurt Shoens
.SH BUGS
The program was designed to be simple and fast \- for more complex
operations, the standard text processors are likely to be more appropriate.
