.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: fpr.1 1.5 86/05/13 $
.ds f. fpr.tbl
.TH FPR 1 "\*(V)" "4BSD"
.SH NAME
fpr \- print Fortran file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B fpr
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Fpr
is a filter that transforms files formatted according to
Fortran's carriage control conventions into files formatted
according to UNIX line printer conventions.
.PP
.I Fpr
copies its input onto its output, replacing the carriage
control characters with characters that will produce the intended
effects when printed using
.IR lpr (1).
The first character of each line determines the vertical spacing as follows:

.if t \{\
.TS
center box;
c | l.
Character	Vertical Space Before Printing
_
Blank	One line
0	Two lines
1	To first line of next page
+	No advance
.TE
.\}
.if n \{\
.nf
    +---------------+--------------------------------+
    |   Character   | Vertical Space Before Printing |
    |---------------+--------------------------------|
    |     Blank     | One line                       |
    |       0       | Two lines                      |
    |       1       | To first line of next page     |
    |       +       | No advance                     |
    +---------------+--------------------------------+
.fi
.\}

.PP
A blank line is treated as if its first
character is a blank. A blank that appears as a carriage control
character is deleted. A zero is changed to a newline.  A one is
changed to a form feed. The effects of a "+" are simulated using
backspaces.
.SH EXAMPLES
a.out | fpr | lpr
.PP
fpr < f77.output | lpr
.SH AUTHOR
Robert P. Corbett
.SH BUGS
Results are undefined for input lines longer than 170 characters.
