.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: id.1 1.6 87/05/04 $
.TH ID 1 "\*(V)" "DYNIX"
.SH NAME
id \- file identification program
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B id
[
.B \-rl
] name ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Id
produces a line containing a checksum, bytecount,
and pathname for each
.IR name .
Every
.I name
must be a pathname starting at the root
(that is, beginning with a slash ``/'').
Specifying
.B \-l
(as in
.IR "ls -l" )
selects a full identification, which adds userid, groupid, and mode
to the basic information.
Specifying
.B \-r
(as in
.IR "ls -r" )
causes
.I id
to recursively enter all directories and identify each file in those
directories (and so on).
.PP
If
.I name
is a symbolic link, then the bytecount and checksum fields apply to the
file the link is pointing to, not to the link itself.
All other fields refer to the link file itself.
.SH "EXAMPLE"
.Ps
id /etc/rc
09210 2706   /etc/rc
.Pe
.PP
In this example, the checksum is 09210, the byte count is 2706, and
the filename is
.IR /etc/rc .
.Ps
id -l /etc/rc
09210 2706     0/10  ---644 /etc/rc
.Pe
.PP
In this example, the checksum is 09210, the byte count is 2706,
the user ID is 0 (zero), the group ID is 10, the permissions are 644
(rw-r--r-- or owner read/write, group read, and universal read),
and the filename is
.IR /etc/rc .
.Ps
id -r /usr/lib/ms
00000 0      /usr/lib/ms
40826 1996   /usr/lib/ms/README
24732 366    /usr/lib/ms/end.awk
32541 354    /usr/lib/ms/endnote
27167 2283   /usr/lib/ms/s.acc
35582 2907   /usr/lib/ms/s.cov
49370 1505   /usr/lib/ms/s.eqn
45571 2388   /usr/lib/ms/s.ref
12266 1115   /usr/lib/ms/s.tbl
06573 260    /usr/lib/ms/s.ths
11940 1440   /usr/lib/ms/s.toc
20075 532    /usr/lib/ms/swapacc
.Pe
.PP
In this example, the 11 files within the directory
.I /usr/lib/ms
have the indicated checksums and byte counts.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
ls (1)
