.\" $Copyright: $
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: ident.1 1.4 1991/06/12 01:29:07 $
.TH IDENT 1 "\*(V)" "Purdue University"
.SH NAME
ident \- identify files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ident
file ... 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Ident
searches the named files for all occurrences of the pattern
\f2$keyword:...$\f1, where \f2keyword\f1 is one of
.nf

        Author
        Date
        Header
        Locker
        Log
        Revision
        Source
        State

.fi
These patterns are normally inserted automatically by the RCS command \f2co (1)\f1,
but can also be inserted manually.
.PP
\f2Ident\f1 works on text files as well as object files.
For example, if the C program in file f.c contains
.nf

        char rcsid[] = "$\&Header:  Header information $";

.fi
and f.c is compiled into f.o, then the command
.nf

        ident  f.c  f.o

will print

        f.c:
                $\&Header:  Header information $
        f.o:
                $\&Header:  Header information $

.SH IDENTIFICATION
.de VL
\\$2
..
Author: Walter F. Tichy,
Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN, 47907.
.sp 0
Revision Number:
.VL $\&Revision: 3.0 $
; Release Date:
.VL $\&Date: 82/12/04 12:09:59 $
\&.
.sp 0
Copyright 1982 by Walter F. Tichy.
.SH SEE ALSO
ci (1), co (1), rcs (1), rcsdiff(1), rcsintro (1), rcsmerge (1), rlog (1), rcsfile (5).
.sp 0
Walter F. Tichy, "Design, Implementation, and Evaluation of a Revision Control
System," in \f2Proceedings of the 6th International Conference on Software
Engineering\f1, IEEE, Tokyo, Sept. 1982.
.SH BUGS
