.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: install.1 1.9 86/09/05 $
.TH INSTALL 1 "\*(V)" "4BSD"
.SH NAME
install \- install binaries
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B install
[
.B \-c
] [
.B \-m
mode ] [
.B \-o
owner ] [
.B \-g
group ] [
.B \-s
] binary [binary...] destination
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Binary
is moved (or copied if 
.B \-c
is specified) to
.IR destination .
If
.I destination
already exists,
it is removed before
.I binary
is moved.
If the destination is a directory then one or more
.I binary
files are moved into the
.I destination
directory with their original file-names.
Note that
.I install
does not interpret arguments the same as
.IR mv (1)
or
.IR cp (1).
For example,
if
.I x
is a directory containing the file
.IR y ,
and
.I z
is a directory at the same level as
.IR x ,
then the command line
"mv x/y z"
moves the file
.I y
into the directory
.I z
(i.e.,
the new full pathname of the file will be
.IR z/y ).
However,
the command line
"install x/y z"
installs both the subdirectory
.I x
.B and
the file
.I y
into the directory
.I z
(i.e.,
the new full pathname of the file will be
.IR z/x/y ).
.PP
The mode for
.I Destination
is set to 755; the
.B \-m
.I mode
option may be used to specify a different mode.
.PP
.I Destination
is changed to owner root; the
.B \-o
.I owner
option may be used to specify a different owner.
.PP
.I Destination
is changed to group root; the
.B \-g
.I group
option may be used to specify a different group.
.PP
If the
.B \-s
option is specified the binary is stripped after being installed.
.PP
.I Install
refuses to move a file onto itself.
.PP
.I Install
adds no privileges;
that is, it cannot change owners or groups of files that the user is
not permitted to access or become, nor write files into directories for which
the user has no write permission.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
chgrp(1), chmod(1), cp(1), mv(1), strip(1), chown(8)
