.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: intro.1 1.5 89/08/16 $
.TH INTRO 1 "\*(V)" "7th Edition"
.SH NAME
intro \- introduction to commands
.SH DESCRIPTION
This section describes publicly accessible commands in alphabetic order.
Certain distinctions of purpose are made in the headings:
.TP
(1)
Commands of general utility.
.TP
(1C)
Commands for communication with other systems.
.TP
(1G)
Commands used primarily for graphics and computer-aided design.
.PP
N.B.: Commands related to system maintenance used to appear in
section 1 manual pages and were distinguished by (1M) at the top of the
page.  These manual pages now appear in section 8.
.SH SEE ALSO
Section (6) for computer games.
.PP
.I How to get started,
in the Introduction.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Upon termination each command returns two bytes of status,
one supplied by the system giving the cause for
termination, and (in the case of `normal' termination)
one supplied by the program, see
.I wait
and
.IR exit (2).
The former byte is 0 for normal termination, the latter
is customarily 0 for successful execution, nonzero
to indicate troubles such as erroneous parameters, bad or inaccessible data,
or other inability to cope with the task at hand.
It is called variously `exit code', `exit status' or
`return code', and is described only where special conventions are involved.
