.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: iostat.1 1.11 87/08/01 $
.TH IOSTAT 1 "\*(V)" "4BSD"
.SH NAME
iostat \- report I/O statistics
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B iostat
[ interval [ count ] ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Iostat
iteratively reports the number of characters read and written to terminals,
and, for each disk, the number of seeks, transfers per second, disk sectors
transfered per second,
and the milliseconds per average seek.
It also gives the percentage of time the system has
spent in user mode, in user mode running low priority (niced) processes,
in system mode, and idling.
.PP
To compute this information, for each disk, seeks and data transfer completions
and number of disk sectors are counted;
for terminals collectively, the number
of input and output characters are counted.
From these numbers and given the transfer rates
of the devices it is possible to determine
average seek times for each device
(which includes all forms of disk latency).
.PP
The optional
.I interval
argument causes
.I iostat
to report once each
.I interval
seconds.
The first report is an average for all time since a reboot and each
subsequent report is for the last interval only.
.PP
The optional
.I count
argument restricts the number of reports.
.SH EXAMPLE
.if t .ta 0.7i 1.4i 2.4i 3.4i 4.3i
.if n .ta 1.0i 1.9i 3.35i 4.75i 6.0i
.Ps
	tty	xp0	sd0	sd1	cpu
 tin tout bps tps msps  bps tps msps  bps tps msps  us ni sy id
  38  543  36   3  0.0    0   0  0.0    3   0  0.0   9  2 17 72
.Pe
For terminals,
.B tin
is the number of characters received per second from terminals and
.B tout
is the number of characters transmitted per second to terminals.
For disks,
.B bps
is the number of blocks (512 byte disk blocks) transferred per second,
.B tps
is the number of transfers per second,
and
.B msps
is the number of milliseconds per seek.
The latter is always 0.0 since the number of seeks is not kept by DYNIX.
For cpus,
.B us
is the percentage of time spent in user mode,
.B ni
is the percentage of time spent in user mode at lower priority (niced),
.B sy
is the percentage of time spent in system (kernel) mode,
and
.B id
is the percentage of time spent idle.
.SH FILES
/dev/kmem
.br
/dynix
.SH SEE ALSO
vmstat(1)
