.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: kill.1 1.6 90/03/13 $
.TH KILL 1 "\*(V)" "4BSD"
.SH NAME
kill \- terminate a process
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B kill
[
.B \- sig
]
.I processid . . .
.br
.B kill
.B \-l
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Kill
sends the TERM (terminate, 15) signal to the specified processes.
If a signal name or number preceded by \f3\-\f1 is given
as first argument, that signal is sent instead of
terminate
(see
.BR  sigvec (2)).
The signal names are listed by
.B kill \-l
, and are as given in
.I /usr/include/signal.h,
stripped of the common SIG prefix.
.PP
The terminate signal kills processes that do not catch the signal;
.B kill \-9 . . .
is a sure kill, because the KILL (9) signal cannot be caught.
By convention, if process number 0 is specified, all members
in the process group (i.e., processes resulting from 
the current login) are signaled.  (But beware: this works only
if you use
\f3sh\f1(1),
not if you use
\3csh\f1(1).)
The killed processes must belong
to the current user 
or the superuser.
.PP
The process number of an asynchronous process
started with \f3&\f1 is reported by the shell.
Process numbers can also be found by using
\f3kill\f1
as a built-in to
.BR csh (1);
it allows job specifiers % . . . ,
so process id's are not used as often as 
kill
arguments.
See \f3csh\f1(1)
for details.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
csh(1), ps(1), kill(2), sigvec(2)
.SH BUGS
An option to kill process groups that works like
\f3killpg\f1(2)
should be provided.
A replacement for 
.B kill \f20\f1
for
\f3csh\f1(1)
users should be provided.
