.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: leave.1 1.4 86/05/13 $
.TH LEAVE 1 "\*(V)" "3BSD"
.SH NAME
leave \- remind you when you have to leave
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B leave
[ hhmm ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Leave
waits until the specified time, then reminds you that you
have to leave.
You are reminded 5 minutes and 1 minute before the actual
time, at the time, and every minute thereafter.
When you log off,
.I leave
exits just before it would have
printed the next message.
.PP
The time of day is in the form hhmm where hh is a time in
hours (on a 12 or 24 hour clock).
All times are converted to a 12 hour clock, and assumed to
be in the next 12 hours.
.PP
If no argument is given,
.I leave
prompts with "When do you
have to leave?". A reply of newline causes
.I leave
to exit,
otherwise the reply is assumed to be a time.
This form is suitable for inclusion in a
.I .login
or
.I .profile.
.PP
Leave ignores interrupts, quits, and terminates.
To get rid of it you should either log off or use ``kill \-9''
giving its process id.
.SH SEE ALSO
calendar(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Mark Horton
.SH BUGS
