.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986 Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.
.\" All rights reserved
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.V= $Header: lisp.1 1.2 87/03/10 $
.\"	@(#)lisp.1	6.1 (Berkeley) 4/29/85
.\"
.TH LISP 1 "\*(V)" "4BSD"
.\" .UC 4
.SH NAME
lisp \- lisp interpreter
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lisp
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Lisp
is a lisp interpreter for a dialect which
closely resembles MIT's M\s-2ACLISP\s0.
This lisp, known as F\s-2RANZ\s0\ L\s-2ISP\s0, features
an I/O facility which allows the user to change the input
and output syntax, add
macro characters, and maintain compatibility with upper-case
only lisp systems;
infinite precision integer arithmetic, and
an error facility which allows the user to trap system errors in 
many different ways.
Programs may be debugged using the
``Joseph Lister'' trace package.
A
.I lisp
containing compiled and interpreted code may be dumped into
a file for later use.
.LP
There are too many functions to list here; one should refer to the
manual listed below.
.SH FILES
.ta 2.4i
/usr/lib/lisp/trace.l	Joseph Lister trace package
.br
/usr/lib/lisp/toplevel.l	top level read-eval-print loop
.SH SEE ALSO
DYNIX Programmer's Manual, VII,
P2\(emF\s-2RANZ\s0\ L\s-2ISP\s0 Manual
