.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
.\"
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.  This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: ln.1 1.10 87/02/27 $
.TH LN 1 "\*(V)" "4BSD/DYNIX"
.SH NAME
ln \- make links
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ln
[
.B \-s
]
name1 [ name2 ]
.br
.B ln
[
.B \-s
]
name ... directory
.br
.B ln
[
.B \-f
]
name ... directory
.br
.B ln
.B \-c
att=name1 ucb=name2 name3
.SH DESCRIPTION
A link is a directory entry referring to a file;
the same file
(together with its size,
all its protection information,
etc.)
may have several links to it.
There are three kinds of links:
hard links,
symbolic links,
and conditional symbolic links.
.PP
By default
.I ln
makes hard links.
A hard link to a file is indistinguishable
from the original directory entry;
any changes to a file are effective
independent of the name used to reference the file.
Hard links may not span file systems and may not refer to directories,
except the superuser can force a hard link to a directory with the
.B \-f
option.
.PP
The
.B \-s
option causes
.I ln
to create symbolic links.
A symbolic link contains the name of the file to which it is linked,
and is interpreted with respect to the directory in which it is created.
Therefore,
you must either
.IR cd (1)
to the directory where the symbolic link is to reside
(before creating the link),
or you must specify the absolute pathname(s) of the linked-to file(s)
(when creating the link).
The referenced file is used when an
.IR open (2)
operation is performed on the link.
A
.IR stat (2)
on a symbolic link will return the linked-to file;
an
.IR lstat (2)
must be done to obtain information about the link.
The
.IR readlink (2)
call may be used to read the contents of a symbolic link.
Symbolic links may span file systems and may refer to directories.
.PP
Given one or two arguments,
.I ln
creates a link to an existing file
.IR name1 .
If
.I name2
is given,
the link has that name;
.I name2
may also be a directory in which to place the link;
otherwise it is placed in the current directory.
If only the directory is specified,
the link will be made to the last component of
.IR name1 .
.PP
Given more than two arguments,
.I ln
makes links to all the named files in the named directory.
The links made will have the same name as the files being linked to.
.PP
A conditional symbolic link is a symbolic link
whose value depends on the current universe setting
(see
.IR universe (1)).
The
.B \-c
option causes
.I ln
to create symbolic links.
The values for the conditional symbolic link must be given,
preceded by the corresponding universe identifier (`att=' or `ucb=').
The values may be given in either order.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
cp(1),
link(2),
mv(1),
readlink(2),
rm(1),
stat(2),
symlink(2)
