.\" $Copyright: $
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: login.1 1.14 1991/08/06 19:06:15 $
.TH LOGIN 1 "\*(V)" "4BSD/DYNIX"
.SH NAME
login \- sign on
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B login
[
.B \-p
] [ username ]
.br
.B login
[
.B \-p
] [
.B \-h
hostname
] [
.B \-f
] [
username
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I login
command
is used when a user initially
signs on, or it may be used at any time to change
from one user to another.
The latter case is the one summarized above and
described here.
See \*(lqHow to Get Started\*(rq for how to dial up initially.
.PP
If
.I login
is invoked without an argument,
it asks for a user name, and, if
appropriate, a password.
Echoing is turned off (if possible) during the typing of the password,
so it will not appear on the written record of the
session.
.PP
After a successful login,
accounting files are updated and
the user is informed of the
existence of mail,
and
the message of the day is printed,
as is the time he last logged in (unless he has a \*(lq.hushlogin\*(rq
file in his home directory \- this
is mostly used to make life easier for non-human users, such as
.IR uucp ).
.PP
.I Login
initializes the user and group IDs and the working directory,
then executes a command interpreter (usually
.IR  sh (1))
according to specifications found in a password file.
Argument 0 of the command interpreter is \*(lq\-sh\*(rq, or
more generally the name of the command interpreter with
a leading dash (\*(lq\-\*(rq) prepended.
.PP
Login also modifies the
environment
.IR environ (7)
with information specifying home directory ($HOME),
command interpreter ($SHELL),
terminal type (if available\-$TERM),
user name ($USER, $LOGNAME),
search path ($PATH),
mail file ($MAIL),
timezone ($TZ), 
and per universe path ($UCBPATH, $ATTPATH)
and shell ($UCBSHELL, $ATTSHELL) information.
The `\-p' argument causes the remainder of the environment to be preserved,
otherwise any previous environment is discarded.
.PP
Login sets the universe (see
.IR universe (1))
to \*(lqucb\*(rq by default;
this can be changed to \*(lqatt\*(rq
by having the string \*(lquniverse(att)\*(rq
appear anywhere in the \*(lqGCOS\*(rq field (field 5)
of the /etc/passwd entry for the user (see
.IR passwd (5)).
.PP
If the file 
.IR /etc/nologin
exists,
.I login
prints its contents on the user's terminal and exits. This is
used by
.IR shutdown (8)
to stop users logging in when the system is about to go down.
Attempts to log in as \*(lqroot\*(rq
on terminals that are not listed in the file
.IR /etc/securetty 
will fail.
If
.I /etc/securetty
does not exist, ``root'' may log in on any terminal.
.PP
Login is recognized by
.IR sh (1)
and
.IR csh (1)
and executed directly (without forking).
.PP
There are several additional options to
.I login
for use at initial login.
With one exception, these options are available only to the superuser.
The
.B \-h
option is used by
.IR telnetd (8C)
and other servers to list the host from which
the connection was received.
The
.B \-f
option is used with a username on the command line
to indicate that proper authentication has already been done
and that no password need be requested.
This option may be used by the superuser
or by the user specified on the command line.
.SH FILES
.ta \w'/usr/spool/mail/*\ \ 'u
/etc/utmp	accounting
.br
/usr/adm/wtmp	accounting
.br
/usr/adm/lastlog	stores last user login 
	(also used by finger(1) and uucp(8c))
.br
/usr/spool/mail/*	mail
.br
/etc/motd	message-of-the-day
.br
/etc/passwd	password file
.br
/etc/nologin	stops logins
.br
\&.hushlogin	makes login quieter
.br
/etc/securetty	lists ttys that root may log in on
.SH "SEE ALSO"
init(8), getty(8), mail(1), passwd(1), passwd(5), environ(7),
universe(1), shutdown(8)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
\*(lqLogin incorrect,\*(rq
if the name or the password is bad.
.br
\*(lqNo Shell\*(rq, \*(lqcannot open password file\*(rq,
\*(lqno directory\*(rq:
consult your system administrator.
.SH BUGS
An undocumented option,
.B \-r
is used by the remote login server,
.IR rlogind (8C)
to force
.I login
to enter into an initial connection protocol.
