.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: mailbug.1 1.16 90/12/18 $
.TH MAILBUG 1 "\*(V)" DYNIX
.SH NAME
mailbug \- submit a bug report or enhancement request
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mailbug
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B mailbug
utility allows you to submit machine-readable bug reports to a Sequent
customer service representative.
Check with your system administrator to ensure that the
.B mailbug
service is supported before submitting a bug report.
.PP
.B Mailbug
prompts for the information needed to fill out the bug report.
After you have entered everything,
.B mailbug
allows you to edit the bug report before mailing it 
or to cancel the report completely.
Unless the report is canceled,
.B mailbug
sends a copy to the customer service representative and one 
to the user submitting the report, and saves a copy in the 
\f2/usr/service/mailbug\fP directory.
Refer to the
.I "DYNIX System Administration Guide"
for information on how to install the
.B mailbug
service.
.PP
.B Mailbug
asks for the following information:
.IP
- Your real login name if you are currently logged in as 
.BR root 
.IP
- Your full name, phone number, and return e-mail path.  This information
can also be provided from the
.I .mailbug
text file, which you can create in your home directory.
.I .Mailbug
should look like this:
.RS
.IP
.ft CW
.nf
Full name: Anne Harris
Phone number: 123-4567
Return email path: anneh@\f2system_name\fP
.fi
.ft 1
.RE
.sp 1
.IP
- Your company or organization name.  This information may
be provided by a line in the
.I /usr/service/site-information 
file, which looks like this:
.RS
.IP
.ft CW
.nf
site_name: Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.
.RE
.fi
.ft 1
.sp 1
.IP
- Whether the problem occurs on this system.
If the answer is yes,
.B mailbug
retrieves as much system-specific data as it can from the system and 
from the following files:
.I /usr/service/site-information
and
.I /usr/service/serial-number .
If the answer is no, 
.B mailbug 
prompts for some system-specific data such as this:
.RS
.IP
System Serial Number
.IP
Operating System Type
.IP
Operating System Version
.IP
The type of system on which the problem occurred
.RE
.IP
- A one-line summary of the bug
.IP
- An assessment of the severity of the bug.
The choices are as follows:
.RS
.IP
.B Critical
\(em an essential component
of the hardware or operating system cannot be used
.IP
.B Serious
\(em a nonessential module or utility
cannot be used
.IP
.B Normal
\(em some feature of a nonessential module or utility
doesn't work correctly
and there is no convenient workaround
.IP
.B Low
\(em some feature of a non-essential module or utility
doesn't work correctly,
but you can work around the problem
without serious inconvenience
.IP
.B Enhancement
\(em suggestions on how the product can be improved
.IP
.B For Your Information
\(em for information only; no action is required
.RE
.IP
- A guess as to the source of the problem:
documentation,
hardware,
mechanical,
software,
diagnostics,
or other
.IP
- For documentation problems,
.B mailbug
prompts for
the name of the manual involved,
the page number,
and the revision number
at the bottom of the manual's page.
.IP
- For hardware and mechanical bugs,
.B mailbug
prompts for the type of hardware component
("Xylogics 472 tape controller", for example),
its part number,
revision number,
and serial number.
.IP
- For software bugs,
.B mailbug
prompts for
the name of the 
software module that is suspected to be incorrect
\(em for example, \f2csh\f1.
.IP
- For diagnostics bugs, 
.B mailbug
prompts for product type.  If the bug does not occur on this system,
console processor type, system processor type, diagnostic version, and 
firmware version are requested.
.IP
- A full description of the bug, which may be as long as necessary
.PP
While the problem description is being entered, certain operations may be 
executed:
.RS
.IP
If a line in the description begins with ~v , your
.B $EDITOR
(\f3vi\fP by default) is started so you can edit the 
description text entered up to that point.
.IP
If a line in the description begins with ~r \f2filename\fP , 
the contents of 
.I filename 
are included in the text of the description.
.RE
.PP
Type a CTRL-D at the beginning
of a line to end the problem description entry procedure.
.PP
If the requested information is unknown or not applicable,
you can skip most fields by simply pressing RETURN in response to the prompt.
.PP
To use default values, which appear in square brackets, simply
press RETURN in response to the prompt.
.PP
It is the responsibility of the system administrator to maintain the data
in the 
.I /usr/service 
directory. This should be done at setup time or can be done at any time 
by editing these files. The 
.I /usr/service/site-information 
file follows the format:
.RS
.sp .5
.ft CW
.nf
site_name: Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.
address: 15450 SW Koll Parkway
city: Beaverton
state_province_code: OR
postal_code: 97006-6063
country: USA
phone_number: (503) 626-5700
site_type: end user
system_type: S81
.fi
.ft 1
.RE
.PP
You may include mulitple address lines. Valid site types are OEM, VAR, 
Distributor, and end user. Valid system types are B8, B21, S81, S27, and S3.
.PP
The 
.I /usr/service/serial-number
file follows the following format:
.RS
.sp .5
.ft CW
.nf
serial_number: 89162 
.sp .5
.fi
.ft 1
.RE
Both of these files are created when the file
.I setup-pts.sh
is executed.  If your mailbug UUCP connection is already 
established, which would make it redundant to run 
.IR setup-pts.sh ,
you can create these files with information in
the format shown above.
.SH FILES
/usr/service/mailbug/site-information
.br
/usr/service/mailbug/serial-number
.SH "SEE ALSO"
uucp(1)

