.\" $Copyright: $
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: man.1 1.15 1991/08/06 23:58:12 $
.TH MAN 1 "\*(V)" "4BSD"
.SH NAME
man \- find manual information by keywords; print out the manual
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.B man
.B \-k
keyword ...
.br
.B man
.B \-f
file ...
.br
.B man
[
.B \-
] [
.B \-P
.I path
] [
.B \-t
] [
section
]
title ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Man
is a program which gives information from the
.IR "DYNIX Programmer's Manual" .
It can be asked for one-line descriptions of commands specified by
name, or for all commands whose description contains any of a set of
keywords.  It can also provide on-line access to the sections of the
printed manual.
.PP
When given the option
.B \-k
and a set of keywords,
.I man
prints out a one-line synopsis of each manual section whose
listing in the table of contents contains that keyword.
.PP
When given the option
.B \-f
and a list of file names, \f2man\f1 attempts to locate manual
sections related to those files, printing out the table of contents
lines for those sections.
This is the same as
.I whatis (1).
.PP
When neither
.B \-k
nor
.B \-f
is specified,
.I man
formats a specified set of manual pages.
If a section identifier is given,
.I man
looks in that section of the manual for the given
.I titles.
.I Section
is an Arabic section number (3 for instance).  The number may be followed by
a single letter classifier (1g for instance)
indicating a graphics program in section 1.  If
.I section
is omitted,
.I man
searches all sections of the manual, giving preference to commands
over subroutines in system libraries, and printing the first section
it finds, if any.
.PP
If the standard output is a teletype, or if the flag
.B \-
is given,
.I man
pipes its output through
.IR cat (1)
with the option
.B \-s
to delete superfluous blank lines, through
.IR ul (1)
to create proper underlines for different terminals, and through
.IR more (1)
to stop after each page on the screen.
(Note that not all commands normally associated with
.IR more (1)
such as 
.B v
will work when 
.IR more (1)
is used by
.IR man .)
Hit a space to continue or
a control-D to scroll more lines when the output stops.
The use of
.IR more (1)
as the pager can be changed by setting the environment variable PAGER.
.PP
The
.B \-t
flag causes
.I man
to arrange for the specified section to be
.IR troff ed
to a suitable raster output device; see
.IR vtroff (1).
The environment variable MANTROFF
is interpreted as a printf-style string
to generate the shell command that
formats the specified section.
The default string is:
.sp
troff -t -man /usr/lib/tmac/tmac.vcat %s\ |\ /usr/lib/rvsort
\ |\ /usr/ucb/vpr -t
.PP
Normally 
.I man 
checks 
.I /usr/man
for manual information.  
This can be changed by supplying an alternate path
with the
.B \-P
flag.
.PP
Manual pages aliases are kept in /usr/man/aliases.
.SH FILES
/usr/man/man?/*
.br
/usr/man/cat?/*
.br
/usr/man/aliases
.SH SEE\ ALSO
more(1), ul(1), whatis(1), catman(8)
.SH BUGS
The manual is supposed to be reproducible either on the phototypesetter
or on a typewriter.
However, on a typewriter some information is necessarily lost.
