.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: merge.1 1.5 87/08/03 $
.TH MERGE 1 "\*(V)" "Purdue University"
.SH NAME
merge \- three-way file merge
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f3merge\f1 [ \f3-p\f1 ] file1 file2 file3
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Merge
incorporates all changes that lead from \f2file2\f1 to \f2file3\f1 into 
\f2file1\f1. The result goes to std. output if \f3-p\f1 is present, into 
\f2file1\f1 otherwise. \f2Merge\f1 is useful for combining separate changes 
to an original. Suppose \f2file2\f1 is the original, and both \f2file1\f1 
and \f2file3\f1 are modifications of \f2file2\f1. Then \f2merge\f1 
combines both changes. 
.PP
An overlap occurs if both \f2file1\f1 and \f2file3\f1
have changes in a common segment of lines.
\f2Merge\f1 prints how many overlaps occurred, and includes both alternatives
in the result. The alternatives are delimited as follows:
.sp
.nf
        <<<<<<< file1
        lines in file1
        =======
        lines in file3
        >>>>>>> file3
.fi
.sp
If there are overlaps, the user should edit the result and delete one of the
alternatives.
.SH IDENTIFICATION
.de VL
\\$2
..
Author: Walter F. Tichy,
Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN, 47907.
.sp 0
Revision Number:
.VL $\&Revision: 3.0 $
; Release Date:
.VL $\&Date: 82/11/25 11:43:41 $
\&.
.sp 0
Copyright
.if t \(co
.if n (c)
1982 by Walter F. Tichy.
.SH SEE ALSO
co (1),
diff(1),
diff3(1),
rcsmerge(1)
