.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: mt.1 1.9 86/05/13 $
.TH MT 1 "\*(V)" "4BSD/DYNIX"
.SH NAME
mt \- magnetic tape manipulating program
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mt
[
.B \-f
.I tapename
]
.I command
[
.I count
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Mt
is used to give commands to a magnetic tape drive.
If a tape name is not specified, the environment variable
TAPE is used;  if TAPE does not exist,
.I mt
uses the device
.IR /dev/rmt12 .
Note
that
.I tapename
must reference a raw (not block) tape device.
By default
.I mt
performs the requested operation once.  Operations
may be performed multiple times by specifying
.IR count .
.PP
The available commands are listed below.  Only as many
characters as are required to uniquely identify a command
need be specified.
.TP
.BR eof , " weof"
Write 
.I count
end-of-file marks at the current position on the tape.
.TP
.B fsf
Forward space
.I count
files.
.TP
.B fsr
Forward space 
.I count
records.
.TP
.B bsf
Back space 
.I count
files.
.TP 
.B bsr
Back space
.I count
records.
.TP
.B rewind
Rewind the tape
.RI ( Count
is ignored.)
.TP
.BR offline , " rewoffl"
Rewind the tape and place the tape unit off-line
.RI ( Count
is ignored.)
.TP
.BR retension , " ret"
Retension the tape.
This command is used for streamer tapes and should be done
once per data access on 5 \(14'' drives to minimize tape stretch.
.TP
.BR eod , " seod"
Spaces to end of valid data.
Used (possibly mandatory) on streamer tape drives to append
data to the logical end of tape.
.TP
.BR noret
Don't retension the tape this time.
Streamer tapes are normally retensioned once on the first physical I/O
operation following insertion of the tape into the drive.
To disable this automatic retensioning, issue this command between
inserting the tape and beginning I/O operations.
Automatic tape retensioning will resume with the next tape insertion.
.TP
.B status
Print status information about the tape unit.
.TP
.B erase
Erase the tape.
.PP
.I Mt
returns a 0 exit status when the operation(s) were successful,
1 if the command was unrecognized, and 2 if an operation failed.
.SH FILES
.DT
/dev/rmt*	Raw magnetic tape interface
.SH "SEE ALSO"
mtio(4), dd(1), ioctl(2), environ(7)
.SH BUGS
.B \-t
is a synonym for
.B \-f
on the command line, for backwards compatibility.
