.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
.\"
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: od.1 1.6 86/08/15 $
.TH OD 1 "\*(V)" "4BSD"
.SH NAME
od \- octal, decimal, hex, ascii dump
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B od
[ \-format ] [ file ] [ [\f3+\fP]offset[\f3.\fP][\f3b\fP] [label] ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Od
displays
.IR file ,
or it's standard input,
in one or more dump formats
as selected by the first argument.
If the first argument is missing,
.B \-o
is the default.
Dumping continues until end-of-file.
.PP
The meanings of the format argument characters are:
.TP 5
.B  a
Interpret bytes as characters and display them with their ACSII names.
If the
.B p
character is given also, then bytes with even parity are underlined.
The
.B P
character causes bytes with odd parity to be underlined.
Otherwise the parity bit is ignored.
.TP 5
.B  b
Interpret bytes as unsigned octal.
.TP 5
.B  c
Interpret bytes as ASCII characters.
Certain non-graphic characters appear as C escapes:
null=\e0,
backspace=\eb,
formfeed=\ef,
newline=\en,
return=\er,
tab=\et;
others appear as 3-digit octal numbers.
Bytes with the parity bit set are displayed in octal.
.TP 5
.B  d
Interpret (short) words as unsigned decimal.
.TP 5
.B  f
Interpret long words as floating point.
.TP 5
.B  h
Interpret (short) words as unsigned hexadecimal.
.TP 5
.B  i
Interpret (short) words as signed decimal.
.TP 5
.B  l
Interpret long words as signed decimal.
.TP 5
.B  o
Interpret (short) words as unsigned octal.
.TP 5
.BR s [n]
Look for strings of ascii graphic characters, terminated with a null byte.
.I N
specifies the minimum length string to be recognized.
By default, the minimum length is 3 characters.
.TP 5
.B  v
Show all data. By default, display lines that are identical to the last
line shown are not output, but are indicated with an ``*'' in column 1.
.TP 5
.BR w [n]
Specifies the number of input bytes to be interpreted and displayed
on each output line. If
.B w
is not specified, 16 bytes are read for each display line.
If
.I n
is not specified, it defaults to 32.
.TP 5
.B  x
Interpret (short) words as hexadecimal.
.PP
An upper case format character implies the long or double precision
form of the object.
.PP
The
.I offset
argument specifies the byte offset
into the file where dumping is to commence.
By default this argument is interpreted in octal.
A different radix can be specified;
If ``\f3.\f1'' is appended to the argument, then
.I offset
is interpreted in decimal.
If
.I offset
begins with ``\f3x\fP'' or ``\f30x\fP'',
it is interpreted in hexadecimal.
If ``\f3b\fP'' (``\f3B\fP'') is appended, the offset is interpreted
as a block count, where a block is 512 (1024) bytes.
If the
.I file
argument is omitted, an
.I offset
argument must be preceded by
.RB `` + ''.
.PP
The radix of the displayed address will be the same as the radix of the
.IR offset ,
if specified; otherwise it will be octal.
.PP
.I Label
will be interpreted as a pseudo-address for the first byte displayed.
It will be shown in ``()'' following the file offset.
It is intended to be used with
core images to indicate the real memory address.
The syntax for
.I label
is identical to that for
.IR offset .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
ddt(1)
.SH BUGS
A file name argument can't start with ``+''.
A hexadecimal offset can't be a block count.
Only one file name argument can be given.
.PP
It is an historical botch to require specification of object, radix, and
sign representation in a single character argument.
