.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: passwd.1 1.7 90/03/30 $
.TH PASSWD 1 "\*(V)" "4BSD"
.SH NAME
passwd \- change login password
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B passwd
[
.B \-f
\f2filename\f1
] [
\f2username\f1
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This command installs or changes a password
associated with the user's
.IR username
(your own by default).
.PP
.B Passwd
prompts for the old password and then for the new one.
You must type the new password twice 
to forestall mistakes.
.PP
A password is truncated if longer than 8 characters, but \f3passwd\f1
doesn't complain if you enter a longer password.     
If a password combines upper- and lowercase characters, it should be
at least five characters long; if it is in monocase, it should be
at least six characters long.
A shorter password compromises your security.
.PP
Only the owner of the name or the superuser may change a password;
the owner must prove knowledge of the old password.
.PP
Use
.B yppasswd
to change your password in the network Yellow Pages.
This will not affect either your local password or your
password on any remote machines on which you have accounts.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP \-f
Treat
.IR filename
as the password file.
.SH FILES
/etc/passwd
.br
/etc/yp/passwd
.SH "SEE ALSO"
login(1), passwd(5), yppasswd(1), crypt(3)
.br
Robert Morris and Ken Thompson,
.I UNIX password security
.SH BUGS
Password file information should be kept in a different data structure
allowing indexed access;
.IR dbm (3X)
would probably be suitable.
.PP
.B passwd
changes a local password, but not a password in
the network Yellow Pages.
Refer to
.BR yppasswd (1)
for information on how to change a Yellow Pages password.
