.\" $Copyright: $
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: prof.1 1.7 1991/06/05 16:24:11 $
.TH PROF 1 "\*(V)" "4BSD"
.SH NAME
prof \- display profile data
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B prof
[
.B \-a
] [
.B \-l
] [
.B \-n
] [
.B \-z
] [
.B \-s
] [
.B \-v
[
.BI \- "low\f1 [ \f3\-\f2high\f1 ]"
] ]
[ a.out
[ mon.out ... ] ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Prof
interprets the file
produced by the
.I monitor
subroutine.
Under default modes,
the symbol table in the
named object file
.I (a.out
default)
is read and correlated with the
profile file
.I (mon.out
default).
For each external symbol, the percentage
of time spent executing between that symbol
and the next
is printed (in decreasing order),
followed by the cumulative time spent in all the
routines displayed so far (added together),
together with the number of times that routine was called
and the number of milliseconds per call.
If more than one profile file is specified,
the output represents the sum of the profiles.
.PP
In order for the number of calls to a routine to be tallied,
the
.B \-p
option of
.I cc
must have been given when the file containing the
routine was compiled.
This option also arranges for the
profile file to be produced automatically.
.PP
Options are:
.TP
.B \-a
all symbols are reported rather than
just external symbols.
.TP
.B \-l
the output is sorted by symbol value.
.TP
.B \-n
the output is sorted by number of calls
.TP
.B \-s
a summary profile file is produced in
.I mon.sum.
This is really only useful
when more than one profile file is specified.
.TP
.B \-v
all printing is suppressed
and a graphic version of the profile
is produced
on the standard output for display by the
.IR  plot (1)
filters.
When plotting, the numbers
.I low
and 
.I high,
by default 0 and 100, may be given to cause a selected
percentage of the profile to be plotted
with accordingly higher resolution.
.TP
.B \-z
routines which have zero usage (as indicated by call counts
and accumulated time) are nevertheless printed in the output.
.SH FILES
.ta \w'mon.out  'u
mon.out	for profile
.br
a.out		for namelist
.br
mon.sum	for summary profile
.SH "SEE ALSO"
monitor(3), profil(2), cc(1), plot(1G)
.SH BUGS
1) Beware of quantization errors.
.br
2) Call counting is done through the invocation of the routine "mcount".
This method gives the correct number of calls to each routine, however it
interferes with the accuracy of calculation of time spent in each routine
since time is spent in mcount itself.
For the time calculations to be accurate the percentage of time spent in 
mcount, (and routines called by it) must be small compared to time spent 
in each routine. If this is not true, then the time calculations will
pick up the time spent in mcount related routines as a significant amount.
This will cause inaccuracies in time measurements, as well as cause
the display of time spent in mcount related routines 
while no calls appear to have been made to them (since
mcount will not count invocations of itself in call counting).
