.\" $Copyright: $
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: quota.1 1.7 1991/07/09 16:44:26 $
.\" @(#)quota.1	1.2 87/02/10 NFSSRC
.\" @(#)quota.1 1.1 86/09/24 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.\" .TH QUOTA 1  "21 August 1985"
.\" .UC 4
.TH QUOTA 1  "\*(V)" "4BSD"
.SH NAME
quota \- display disk usage and limits
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B quota
[
.B \-v
] [
.I user
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I quota
command displays users' disk usage and limits. 
The disk usage and limit values are displayed in
terms of 1K blocks.
Only the super-user may use the optional
.I user
argument to view the limits of other users.
.LP
The
.I quota
command without options displays only warnings 
about mounted filesystems where usage is over quota.
Remotely mounted filesystems that are mounted with
the "noquota" option
(see 
.IR fstab (5))
are ignored.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP \fB\-v\fP
display user's quotas on all mounted filesystems where quotas exist
.SH FILES
.TP 15
quotas
quota file at the filesystem root
.TP
/etc/mtab
list of currently mounted filesystems
.DT
.SH "SEE ALSO"
quotactl(2), quotaon(8), edquota(8), rquotad(8C), fstab(5)
