.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
.\"
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.  This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: rlog.1 1.5 90/09/05 $
.TH RLOG 1 "\*(V)" "Purdue University"
.SH NAME
rlog \- print log messages and other information about RCS files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rlog
[ options ]
file ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Rlog
prints information about RCS files.
Files ending in `,v' are RCS files, all others are working files. If
a working file is given, \f2rlog\f1 tries to find the corresponding
RCS file first in directory ./RCS and then in the current directory,
as explained in \f2co\f1 (1).
.PP
\f2Rlog\f1 prints the following information for each
RCS file: RCS file name, working file name, head (i.e., the number
of the latest revision on the trunk), access list, locks,
symbolic names, suffix, total number of revisions,
number of revisions selected for printing, and
descriptive text. This is followed by entries for the selected revisions in
reverse chronological order for each branch. For each revision,
\f2rlog\f1 prints revision number, author, date/time, state, number of
lines added/deleted (with respect to the previous revision),
locker of the revision (if any), and log message.
Without options, \f2rlog\f1 prints complete information.
The options below restrict this output.
.TP 10
.B \-L
ignores RCS files that have no locks set; convenient in combination with
\f3-R\f1, \f3-h\f1, or \f3-l\f1.
.TP 10
.B \-R
only prints the name of the RCS file; convenient for translating a
working file name into an RCS file name.
.TP 10
.B \-h
prints only RCS file name, working file name, head,
access list, locks,
symbolic names, and suffix.
.TP 10
.B \-t
prints the same as \f3-h\f1, plus the descriptive text.
.TP 10
.BI \-d "dates"
prints information about revisions with a checkin date/time in the ranges given by
the semicolon-separated list of \f2dates\f1.
A range of the form \f2d1<d2\f1 or \f2d2>d1\f1
selects the revisions that were deposited between
\f2d1\f1 and \f2d2\f1, (inclusive).
A range of the form \f2<d\f1 or \f2d>\f1 selects
all revisions dated
\f2d\f1 or earlier.
A range of the form \f2d<\f1 or \f2>d\f1 selects
all revisions dated \f2d\f1 or later.
A range of the form \f2d\f1 selects the single, latest revision dated \f2d\f1 or
earlier.
The date/time strings \f2d, d1, \f1and \f2d2\f1
are in the free format explained in \f2co\f1 (1).
Quoting is normally necessary, especially for \f2<\f1 and \f2>\f1. Note that the separator is
a semicolon.
.TP 10
.B \-l\f1[\f2lockers\f1]
prints information about locked revisions.
If the comma-separated list \f2lockers\f1 of login names is given,
only information about revisions locked by the given login names is printed.
If the list is omitted, information about all locked revisions is printed.
.TP 10
.BI \-r "revisions"
prints information about revisions given in the comma-separated list
\f2revisions\f1 of revisions and ranges. A range \f2rev1\-rev2\f1 means revisions
\f2rev1\f1 to \f2rev2\f1 on the same branch, \f2\-rev\f1 means revisions
from the beginning of the branch up to and including \f2rev\f1,
and \f2rev\-\f1 means revisions starting with \f2rev\f1 to the end of the
branch containing \f2rev\f1. An argument that is a branch means all
revisions on that branch. A range of branches means all revisions
on the branches in that range.
.TP 10
.BI \-s "states"
prints information about revisions whose state attributes match one of the
states given in the comma-separated list \f2states\f1.
.TP 10
.B \-w\f1[\f2logins\f1]
prints information about revisions checked in by users with
login names appearing in the comma-separated list \f2logins\f1.
If \f2logins\f1 is omitted, the user's login is assumed.
.PP
\f2Rlog\f1 prints the intersection of the revisions selected with
the options \f3-d\f1, \f3-l\f1, \f3-s\f1, \f3-w\f1, intersected
with the union of the revisions selected by \f3-b\f1 and \f3-r\f1.
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
.sp
	rlog  -L  -R  RCS/*,v
	rlog  -L  -h  RCS/*,v
	rlog  -L  -l  RCS/*,v
	rlog  RCS/*,v
.sp
.fi
The first command prints the names of all RCS files in the subdirectory `RCS'
which have locks. The second command prints the headers of those files,
and the third prints the headers plus the log messages of the locked revisions.
The last command prints complete information.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The exit status always refers to the last RCS file operated upon,
and is 0 if the operation was successful, 1 otherwise.
.SH IDENTIFICATION
.de VL
\\$2
..
Author: Walter F. Tichy,
Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN, 47907.
.sp 0
Revision Number:
.VL $\&Revision: 3.2 $
; Release Date:
.VL $\&Date: 83/05/11 11:11:22 $
\&.
.sp 0
Copyright \(co 1982 by Walter F. Tichy.
.SH SEE ALSO
ci(1),
co(1),
ident(1),
rcs(1),
rcsdiff(1),
rcsfile(5),
rcsintro(1),
rcsmerge(1).
.sp 0
Walter F. Tichy, "Design, Implementation, and Evaluation of a Revision Control
System," in \f2Proceedings of the 6th International Conference on Software
Engineering\f1, IEEE, Tokyo, Sept. 1982.
.SH BUGS
