.\" $Copyright: $
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: rsh.1c 1.7 1991/04/30 18:58:22 $
.TH RSH 1C "\*(V)" "4BSD"
.SH NAME
rsh \- remote shell
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rsh
host
[
.B \-l
username
] [
.B \-n
] command
.br
host
[
.B \-l
username
] [
.B \-n
] command
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Rsh
connects to the specified
.I host,
and executes the specified \fIcommand\fR.
.I Rsh
copies its standard input to the remote command, the standard
output of the remote command to its standard output, and the
standard error of the remote command to its standard error.
Interrupt, quit and terminate signals are propagated to the remote
command; \fIrsh\fP normally terminates when the remote command does.
.PP
The remote username used is the same as your local username,
unless you specify a different remote name with the
.B \-l
option.
This remote name must be equivalent (in the sense of
.IR rlogin (1C))
to the originating account; no provision
is made for specifying a password with a command.
.PP
If you omit
.I command,
then instead of executing a single command, you will be logged in
on the remote host using
.IR rlogin (1C).
.PP
Shell metacharacters which are not quoted are interpreted
on local machine, while quoted metacharacters are interpreted on
the remote machine.
Thus the command
.PP
\ \ \ rsh otherhost cat remotefile >> localfile
.PP
appends the remote file
.I remotefile
to the localfile
.I localfile,
while
.PP
\ \ \ rsh otherhost cat remotefile ">>" otherremotefile
.PP
appends
.I remotefile
to
.I otherremotefile.
.PP
Host names are resolved by calling
.I gethostbyname(3N),
which may involve the use of the name server
.I named(8);
see
.I gethostent(3N)
for details.
The host names for local machines are also commands in the directory
/usr/hosts; if you put this directory in your search path
then the
.B rsh
can be omitted.
.SH FILES
.ta 2i
/etc/hosts
.br
/usr/hosts/*
.DT
.SH SEE ALSO
rlogin(1C), gethostent(3N), named(8)
.SH BUGS
If you are using
.IR csh (1)
and put a
.IR rsh (1C)
in the background without redirecting its input
away from the terminal, it will block even if no reads
are posted by the remote command.  If no input is desired
you should redirect the input of
.I rsh
to /dev/null using the
.B \-n
option.
.PP
You cannot run an interactive command
(like
.IR rogue (6)
or
.IR vi (1));
use
.IR rlogin (1C).
.PP
Stop signals stop the local \fIrsh\fP process only; this is arguably
wrong, but currently hard to fix for reasons too complicated to
explain here.
