.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987 Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.
.\" All rights reserved
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: rup.1c 1.5 87/04/30 $
.\" @(#)rup.1c 1.1 85/12/28 SMI;
.TH RUP 1C "5 July 1985"
.SH NAME
rup \- show host status of local machines (RPC version)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rup
[
.B \-h
] [
.B \-l
] [
.B \-t
] [
host \fB.\|.\|.\fP
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\".IX  "rup command"  ""  "\f2rup\fP \(em display status of local hosts"
.\".IX  "display status of local hosts"  ""  "display status of local hosts \(em \f2rup\fP"
.I Rup
gives a status similar to
.I uptime
for remote machines;  It broadcasts on the local network, and displays
the responses it receives.
.LP
Normally, the listing is in the order that responses are received,
but this order can be
changed by specifying one of the options listed below.
.LP
When \fIhost\fP arguments are given, rather than broadcasting
.I rup
will only query the list of specified hosts.
.LP
A remote host will only respond if it is running the
.I rstatd
daemon, which is normally started up from
.I inetd(8C).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 5
.B \-h
sort the display alphabetically by host name.
.TP 5
.B \-l
sort the display by load average
.TP 5
.B \-t
sort the display by up time.
.SH FILES
.DT
/etc/servers
.SH SEE ALSO
ruptime(1C),
inetd(8C),
rstatd(8C)
.SH BUGS
.LP
Broadcasting does not work through gateways.
