.\" $Copyright:	$
.\"Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\"Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\"This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\"only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\"inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\"be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\"other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\"hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: rusers.1c 1.4 87/06/16 $
.\" @(#)rusers.1c	1.2 87/02/10 NFSSRC
.\" @(#)rusers.1c 1.1 86/09/24 SMI; from UCB 4.1
.TH RUSERS 1C "5 July 1985"
.SH NAME
rusers \- who's logged in on local machines (RPC version)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rusers
[
.B \-a
] [
.B \-h
] [
.B \-i
] [
.B \-l
] [
.B \-u
] [
host \fB.\|.\|.\fP
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "rusers command"  ""  "\fLrusers\fP \(em who is logged in on local network"
.IX  "who is logged in on local network"  ""  "who is logged in on local network \(em \fLrusers\fP"
.IX  network  rusers  ""  "\fLrusers\fP \(em who is logged in on local network"
.IX  login  rusers  ""  "\fLrusers\fP \(em who is on local network"
The
.I rusers
command produces output similar to
.IR users(1)
and
.IR who(1),
but for remote machines.  It broadcasts on the local network,
and prints the responses it receives.
Normally, the listing is in the order that responses are received,
but this order can be
changed by specifying one of the options listed below.
When \fIhost\fP arguments are given, rather than broadcasting
.I rusers
will only query the list of specified hosts.
.LP
The default is to print out a listing in the style of
.IR users(1)
with one line per machine.  When the \fB-l\fP flag is given, a
.IR rwho(1)
style listing is used.  In addition, if
a user hasn't typed to the system for a minute or more,
the idle time is reported.
.LP
A remote host will only respond if it is running the
.I rusersd
daemon, which is normally started up from
.I inetd.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 
.B \-a
gives a report for a machine even if 
no users are logged on.
.TP 
.B \-h
sort alphabetically by host name.
.TP 
.B \-i
sort by idle time.
.TP 
.B \-l
Give a longer listing in the style of \fIwho(1)\fP.
.TP 
.B \-u
sort by number of users.
.SH FILES
/etc/servers
.SH SEE ALSO
rwho(1C), inetd(8C), rusersd(8C)
.SH BUGS
.LP
Broadcasting does not work through gateways.
