.\" $Copyright: $
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: rwall.1 1.3 1991/08/06 19:06:41 $
.TH RWALL 1 "\*(V)" "4BSD"
.\" @(#)rwall.1 1.1 85/12/28 SMI;
.SH NAME
rwall \- write to all users over a network
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rwall
host1 host2 ...
.br
.B rwall
.B \-n
netgroup1 netgroup2 ...
.br
.B rwall
.B \-h
host
.B \-n
netgroup
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\".IX  "write to all users on network"  ""  "write to all users on network \(em \f2rwall\fP"
.\".IX  network  rwall  ""  "\f2rwall\fP \(em write to all users"
.\".IX  "broadcast messages"  "rwall"  ""  "\f2rwall\fP \(em to all users on network"
.I Rwall
reads a message from standard input until end-of-file.
It then sends this message,
preceded by the line ``Broadcast Message ...'',
to all users logged in on the specified host machines.
With the
.B -n
option,
it sends to the specified network groups,
which are defined in
.IR netgroup (5).
.PP
A machine can only receive such a message if it is running
.IR rwalld (8),
which is normally started up from
.I /etc/servers
by the daemon
.IR inetd (8).
.SH FILES
/etc/servers
.SH "SEE ALSO"
wall(1), netgroup(5), rwalld(8), shutdown(8)
.SH BUGS
The timeout is fairly short in order to be able to send to
a large group of machines (some of which may be down)
in a reasonable amount of time.
Thus the message may not get through to a heavily loaded machine.
