.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: style.1 1.4 86/05/13 $
.TH STYLE 1 "\*(V)" "7th Edition"
.SH NAME
style  \-  analyze surface characteristics of a document
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B style
[
.B \-ml
] [
.B \-mm
] [
.B \-a
] [
.B \-e
] [
.B \-l
num ] [
.B \-r
num ] [
.B \-p
] [
.B \-P
]
file ...
.LP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Style
analyzes the surface characteristics of the writing style
of a document.
It reports on readability, sentence length and
structure, word length and usage, verb type, and sentence openers.
Because
.I style
runs
.I deroff
before looking at the text, formatting
header files should be included as part of the input.
The default macro package
.B \-ms
may be overridden with the flag
.B \-mm.
The flag
.BR \-ml ,
which causes 
.B deroff
to skip lists, should be used if the document contains many lists of
non-sentences.
The other options are used to locate sentences with certain characteristics.
.TP
.B \-a
print all sentences with their length and readability index.
.TP
.B \-e
print all sentences that begin with an expletive.
.TP
.B \-p
print all sentences that contain a passive verb.
.TP
.BI \-l num
print all sentences longer than
.IR num .
.TP
.BI \-r num
print all sentences whose readability index is greater than
.IR num .
.TP
.B \-P
print parts of speech of the words in the document.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
deroff(1), diction(1)
.SH BUGS
Use of non-standard formatting macros may cause
incorrect sentence breaks.
