.\" $Copyright: $
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: su.1 1.13 1991/08/06 19:06:46 $
.TH SU 1 "\*(V)" "3BSD"
.SH NAME
su \- substitute user id temporarily
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B su
[
.B \-f
] [
.B \-
] [ userid ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Su
demands the password of the specified
.I userid,
and if it is given,
changes to that 
.I userid
and invokes the shell
.IR sh (1)
without changing the current directory
(Note this may result in 
.IR pwd (1)
failing to report the current directory correctly, 
if the permissions prohibit that).
The user environment
is unchanged except for HOME and SHELL,
which are taken from the password file
for the user being substituted
(see
.IR environ (7)).
The new user ID stays in force until the shell exits.
.PP
If the
.B \-f
flag is included,
a fast login is performed,
skipping the new
.IR userid 's
.I .login
or
.I .cshrc
files.
.PP
If the
.B \-
flag is included,
a full login is performed,
causing the current environment to be flushed, and replaced
with whatever
.IR login (1)
would provide on a standard login.
.PP
If no 
.I userid
is specified, \*(lqroot\*(rq is assumed.
A user must belong to group \*(lqroot\*(rq
to switch to
.I userid
\*(lqroot\*(rq.
If group \*(lqroot\*(rq does not exist,
\*(lqroot\*(rq privileges may be obtained by any user
who knows the \*(lqroot\*(rq password.
To remind the super-user of his responsibilities,
the shell substitutes `#' for its usual prompt.
.PP
In the file
.IR /usr/adm/sus ,
.I su
logs both successful and unsuccessful attempts to 
switch user ID to \*(lqroot\*(rq.
The attempts are also reported to 
.IR syslogd (8)
instead of being written to the system console.  
.SH FILES
/etc/passwd	password file
.br
/usr/adm/sus	lists potential security breaches
.br
/etc/group	users in group root may
.I su
to \*(lqroot\*(rq
.SH "SEE ALSO"
login(1), sh(1), syslogd(8)
.SH BUGS
Local administrative rules cause restrictions to
be placed on who can
.I su
to \*(lqroot\*(rq, even with the root password.
These rules vary from site to site.
