.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
.\"
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: tail.1 1.12 90/03/30 $
.TH TAIL 1 "\*(V)" "4BSD"
.SH NAME
tail \- deliver the last part of a file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tail
[ \(+-[number][\f3lbc\f1][\f3fr\f1] ]
[ file ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Tail
copies the named file to the standard output beginning
at a designated place.
If no file is named,
the standard input is used.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \+\f2number\f1
Copy input starting at line
.I number
of the input file.  
Depending on the use of the 
.B l, b
or
.B c
options, 
.I number
denotes a count of lines, blocks or characters.
If none of the
.B l, b
or
.B c
options are specified, 
.B tail
defaults to counting lines.
If 
.I number
is not specified, a value of 10 is used.
.TP
.BI \-\f2number\f1
Copy input starting at a distance of
.I number
lines from the end of the file.  
Depending on the use of the 
.B l, b
or
.B c
options, 
.I number
denotes a count of lines, blocks or characters.
If none of the
.B l, b
or
.B c
options are specified, 
.B tail
defaults to counting lines.
If 
.I number
is not specified, a value of 10 is used.
.TP 
.B \ l
.I number
is used as a count of lines.
.TP
.B \ b
.I number
is used as a count of 512-byte blocks.
.TP
.B \ c
.I number
is used as a count of characters.
.TP
.B \ f
.B tail
does not quit at the end of the input file, but 
continues to read from the input file repeatedly in 
hopes that the file will grow.
.TP
.B \ r
.B tail
prints lines from the end of the input file in reverse order.
The default for 
.B r
is to print one entire buffer
(approximately 32K)
this way.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
dd(1)
.SH BUGS
Tails relative to the end of the file
are treasured up in a buffer,
and thus are limited in length.
.PP
Various kinds of anomalous behavior may happen
with character special files.
.PP
Note that the
.B tail
command recognizes only one option argument before the list of
files.  Therefore, you cannot use the
.B -n
option and the
.B -f
option together as in
.B tail
.B -f
.B -20
.I filename.
To use these two options together, you 
would specify them as
.B tail
.B -20f
.I filename.
