.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: talk.1 1.8 91/01/02 $
.TH TALK 1 "\*(V)" "4BSD"
.SH NAME
talk \- talk to another user
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B talk
person [ ttyname ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fITalk\fP is a visual communication program which copies lines from your
terminal to that of another user.
.PP 
If you wish to talk to someone on your own machine, then \fIperson\fP
is just the person's login name.  If you wish to talk to a user on
another host, then \fIperson\fP is of the form \fIuser@host\fP.
.PP
If you want to talk to a user who is logged in more than once, the
\fIttyname\fP argument may be used to indicate the appropriate terminal
name, where \fIttyname\fP is of the form ``ttyXX''.
.PP
When first called, \fItalk\fP sends the message
.PP
     Message from TalkDaemon@his_machine...
     talk: connection requested by your_name@your_machine.
     talk: respond with: talk your_name@your_machine
.PP
to the user you wish to talk to. At this point, the recipient
of the message should reply by typing
.PP
     talk \ your_name@your_machine
.PP
It doesn't matter from which machine the recipient replies, as
long as his login-name is the same.  Once communication is established,
the two parties may type simultaneously, with their output appearing
in separate windows.  Typing control L (^L) will cause the screen to
be reprinted, while your erase, kill, and word kill characters will
behave normally.  To exit, just type your interrupt character.
.PP
Permission to talk may be denied or granted by use of the \fImesg\fP
command.  At the outset talking is allowed.  Certain commands, in
particular \fInroff\fP and \fIpr\fP, disallow messages in order to
prevent messy output.
.PP
.SH FILES
/etc/hosts	to find the recipient's machine
.br
/etc/utmp		to find the recipient's tty
.SH "SEE ALSO"
42talk(1), mail(1), mesg(1), who(1), write(1), talkd(8)
.SH BUGS
The version of \fItalk\fP(1) released with 4.3BSD, as well as DYNIX(R) 3.0.17 
and later, uses a protocol that
is incompatible with the protocol used in earlier releases.
To talk with a 4.2BSD based system, you must use the 42talk(1) command.
