.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: tbl.1 1.5 86/05/13 $
.TH TBL 1 "\*(V)" "7th Edition"
. \" this man page MUST be filtered through tbl
.SH NAME
tbl \- format tables for nroff or troff
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tbl
[ files ] ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Tbl
is a preprocessor for formatting tables for
.I nroff
or
.IR troff (1).
The input files are copied to the standard output, except for lines between
\&.TS and .TE command lines, which are assumed to describe tables
and are reformatted.
Details are given in the 
.IR tbl (1)
reference manual.
.SH EXAMPLE
.PP
As an example, letting \\t represent a tab (which should be typed as a genuine
tab) the input
.IP ""
\&.TS
.nf
c s s
c c s
c c c
l n n.
Household Population
Town\\tHouseholds
\\tNumber\\tSize
Bedminster\\t789\\t3.26
Bernards Twp.\\t3087\\t3.74
Bernardsville\\t2018\\t3.30
Bound Brook\\t3425\\t3.04
Branchburg\\t1644\\t3.49
Bridgewater\\t7897\\t3.81
Far Hills\\t240\\t3.19
\&.TE
.LP
.fi
yields
.ne 10
.IP " "
.TS
c s s
c c s
c c c
l n n.
Household Population
Town	Households
	Number	Size
Bedminster	789	3.26
Bernards Twp.	3087	3.74
Bernardsville	2018	3.30
Bound Brook	3425	3.04
Branchburg	1644	3.49
Bridgewater	7897	3.81
Far Hills	240	3.19
.TE
.fi
.PP
If no arguments are given,
.I tbl
reads the standard input, so it may be used as a filter.  When 
.I tbl
is used with
.I eqn
or
.I neqn
the
.I tbl
command should be first, to minimize the volume of data passed through pipes.
.SH SEE ALSO
troff(1), eqn(1)
.br
M. E. Lesk,
.I TBL.
