.\" $Copyright: $
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: tc.1 1.5 1991/08/06 19:06:51 $
.TH TC 1 "\*(V)" "7th Edition"
.SH NAME
tc \- phototypesetter simulator
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tc
[
.B \-t
]
[
.B \-s\c
N
]
[
.B \-p\c
L
]
[
file
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Tc
interprets its
input (standard input default)
as device codes for a Graphic Systems phototypesetter (cat).
The standard output of
.I tc
is intended for a Tektronix 4015 (a 4014 terminal
with ASCII and APL character sets).
The sixteen typesetter sizes are mapped into the 4014's
four sizes;
the entire TROFF character set is drawn using the 4014's
character generator,
using overstruck combinations where necessary.
Typical usage:
.IP "" 15
troff \-t file | tc
.PP
At the end of each page
.I tc
waits for a newline (empty line) from the keyboard before
continuing on to the next page.
In this wait state, the command
.B e
will suppress the screen erase before the next page;
.B s\c
N will cause the next N pages to be skipped;
and
.B !\c
line will send line to the shell.
.PP
The command line options are:
.TP
.B  \-t
Don't wait between pages; for directing output into a file.
.TP 
.BR \-s N
Skip the first N pages.
.TP 
.BR \-p L
Set page length to L.
L may include the scale factors
.B p
(points),
.B i
(inches),
.B c
(centimeters),
and
.B P
(picas);
default is picas.
.TP
.BI \(fm\- l\ w \(fm
Multiply the default aspect ratio, 1.5, of a displayed page
by
.I l/w.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
troff(1),
plot(1G)
.SH BUGS
Font distinctions are lost.
.br
.IR tc 's
character set is limited to ASCII in just one size.
.br
The aspect ratio option is unbelievable.
