.\" $Copyright: $
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: time.1 1.14 1991/06/12 23:57:51 $
.TH TIME 1 "\*(V)" "4BSD"
.SH NAME
time, ptime \- time a command
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B time
[
.B \-a
]
[
.B \-r
]
[
.B \-v
] command
.PP
.B ptime
[
.B \-a
]
[
.B \-r
]
[
.B \-v
] command
.SH DESCRIPTION
After a given command has been executed, 
.B time
prints the elapsed time during the command, the time
spent in the system, and the time spent in execution
of the command.
Time is reported in seconds.
.SH OPTIONS
When the 
.B \-a
option is specified,
or when invoked as
.B ptime,
.B time
shows the execution time for each process.
.PP
When the
.B \-r
option is specified,
.B time
also includes resource usage information.
.PP
The resource usage fields are:
.TP "\w'majorPF   'u"
.B pid
numerical user-id of process owner
.TP
.B ppid
numerical user-id of parent of process
.TP
.B MaxRSS
maximum real memory (resident set) size (in pages)
.TP
.B MajorPF
major page faults
.TP
.B MinorPF
minor page faults
.TP
.B Swaps
count of process swaps
.TP
.B blkI
count of block input operations
.TP
.B blkO
count of block output operations
.TP
.B Nsig
count of signals received
.TP
.B Vcsw
voluntary context switches
.TP
.B Icsw
involuntary context switches
.PP
When the
.B \-v
option is specified,
.B time
traces process events such as fork, exec, and exit
as they occur.
.PP
The times are printed on the diagnostic output stream.
.PP
.B Time
is a built-in command to
.BR csh (1),
with a different syntax and a different output format.
This command is available as
.I /bin/time
to
.I csh
users.
.SH BUGS
Due to the multiprocessing nature of DYNIX, it is possible for the
CPU time (user + system time) for the command to greatly exceed 
real time, thus giving percentages greater than 100% for CPU utilization.
.PP
The
.B \-a
option
returns a smaller number for the system time because it does not include
the time used to exit the process.
.PP
Using
.I ptime
to measure parallel fork/exit times results in serializing all fork and
exit operations in the program being timed.  These results are misleading
as parallel fork/exit does perform faster than a sequential implementation.
