.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: tk.1 1.5 86/05/13 $
.TH TK 1 "\*(V)" "7th Edition"
.SH NAME
tk \- paginator for the Tektronix 4014
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tk
[
.B \-t
]
[
.B \-\c
.I  N
]
[
.B \-p\c
.I  L
]
[
file
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The output of
.I tk
is intended for a Tektronix 4014 terminal.
.I Tk
arranges for 66 lines to fit on the screen,
divides the screen into
.I N
columns,
and
contributes an eight space page offset
in the (default) single-column case.
Tabs, spaces, and backspaces are collected and plotted
when necessary.
Teletype Model 37 half- and reverse-line sequences
are interpreted and plotted.
At the end of each page
.I tk
waits for a newline (empty line) from the keyboard before
continuing on to the next page.
In this wait state, the command
.BI ! command
will send the
.I command
to the shell.
.PP
The command line options are:
.TP
.B \-t
Don't wait between pages; for directing output into a file.
.PP
.TP
.BI \- N
Divide the screen into \f2N\f1 columns and
wait after the last column.
.TP
.BI \-p L
Set page length to \f2L\f1
lines.
.SH SEE ALSO
pr(1)
