.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: universe.1 1.12 87/02/19 $
.TH UNIVERSE 1 "\*(V)" "DYNIX"
.SH NAME
universe, att, ucb \- universe manipulations
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B universe
.PP
.B att
[ command [ arg ... ] ]
.PP
.B ucb
[ command [ arg ... ] ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Universe
displays the current universe setting as `att' or `ucb'.
The `att' universe selects the functionality of AT&T's UNIX System V
Rel 2 Ver 2,
while the `ucb' universe selects the functionality of UNIX 4.2bsd,
as distributed by the University of California at Berkeley,
and enhanced by Sequent.
.PP
.I Att
or
.I ucb
run
.I command
in the corresponding universe.
If
.I command
is omitted, a new shell
is started in the selected universe and
run as a login shell.
.PP
Before running the shell or command, the
.I att
or 
.I ucb
commands perform the following actions:
change the universe to U_UCB or U_ATT,
copy ATTPATH (if U_ATT) or UCBPATH (if U_UCB) to PATH, 
copy ATTSHELL (if U_ATT) or UCBSHELL (if U_UCB) to SHELL, 
change directory to $HOME (if command is omitted),
and exec the shell ($SHELL) or command.
.PP
.I Att
or
.I ucb
will generate an additional shell if
.I command
is omitted.
When the new shell exits, the previous environment is restored.
If you do not want to return to the old environment, you can
exec the new shell by typing `exec att' or `exec ucb'.
.PP
If you move back and forth between universes often,
do not place a
.I stty
command, such as:
.br
	stty 0
.br
in your
.I .logout
file.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
environ(7), ln(1), login(1)
.br
.I
DYNIX System V User's Guide

