.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: uulog.1c 1.2 87/06/17 $
.TH UULOG 1C "\*(V)" "4BSD"
.\"
.\"	@(#)uulog.1c	6.1 (Berkeley) 4/24/86
.\"
.UC 6
.SH NAME
uulog \- display \s-1UUCP\s0 log files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B uulog
[
.B \-s
.I sys
] [
.B \-u
.I user
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Uulog
queries a log
of 
.IR uucp (1C)
and
.IR uux (1C)
transactions in the file
.B /usr/spool/uucp/\s-1LOGFILE.\s0
.PP
The options command 
.I uulog
to print logging information:
.TP 8
.BI \-s sys\^
Print information about work involving system
.IR sys .
.TP 8
.BI \-u user\^
Print information about work done for the specified
.IR user .
.SH FILES
/usr/spool/uucp/\s-1LOGFILE\s0
.SH "SEE ALSO"
uucp(1C),
uux(1C)
.SH NOTES
Very early releases of \s-1UUCP\s0 used separate log files
for each of the \s-1UUCP\s0 utilities;
.I uulog
was used to merge the individual logs into a master file.
This capability has not been necessary for some time and is
no longer supported.
.SH BUGS
\s-1UUCP\s0's recording of which user issued a request is unreliable.
.PP
.I Uulog
is little more than an overspecialized version of
.IR grep (1).
