.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: vfontinfo.1 1.5 86/05/13 $
.TH VFONTINFO 1 "\*(V)" "4BSD"
.SH NAME
vfontinfo \- inspect and print out information about UNIX fonts
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.B /usr/lib/vfontinfo
[
.B \-v
]
fontname
[
characters
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Vfontinfo
allows you to examine a font in the UNIX format.
It prints out
all the information in the font header and information about every
non-null (width > 0) glyph.
This can be used to make sure the font
is consistent with the format.
.PP
The
.I fontname
argument is the name of the font you wish to inspect.
It writes to standard output.
If it can't find the file in your working directory, it looks in
.I /usr/lib/vfont
(the place most of the fonts are kept).
.PP
The
.IR characters ,
if given, specify certain characters to show.
If omitted, the entire font is shown.
.PP
If the
.B \-v
(verbose)
flag is used,
the bits of the glyph itself are shown
as an array of X's and spaces,
in addition to the header information.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
vpr(1), vfont(5)
.br
The Berkeley Font Catalog
.SH AUTHORS
Mark Horton
.br
Andy Hertzfeld
