.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: vi.1 1.13 87/03/04 $
.TH VI 1 "\*(V)" "3BSD"
.SH NAME
vi, view \- screen oriented (visual) display editor based on ex
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B vi
[
.B \-t
.I tag
] [
.B \-r
] [
.B \-l
] [
\f3-w\f2n\f1
] [
.B \-x
] [
.B \-R
] [
\f3+\f1\f2command\f1
]
.I name ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Vi
(visual) is a display oriented text editor based on
.IR ex (1).
.I Ex
and
.I vi
run the same code; it is possible to get to
the command mode of
.I ex
from within
.I vi
by entering
\f3Q\f1,
and it is possible to get to the visual mode of
.I vi
from within
.I ex
by entering
.B vi
at the
.B :
prompt.
.PP
The
.I "Vi Quick Reference"
card and the
.I "Introduction to Display Editing with Vi"
provide full details on using
.I vi.
.PP
This version of
.I vi
supports multiple instances of a tag in a tags file.  Multiple
tags cause
.I vi
to enter a special mode and present a list of tags.
The user can then scan through the list and select the desired tag
using the following commands:
.TP "\w`ESC  `u"
j
move down in the list    
.TP
k
move up in the list    
.TP
CR
accept the displayed tag
.TP
n
check next tag file 
.TP
ESC
abort the tags command
.PP
Other keystrokes will give an error indication.
.PP
The
.B \-t
option is equivalent to an initial
.I tag
command, editing the file containing the
.I tag
and positioning the editor at its definition.
The
.B \-r
option is used in recovering after an editor or system crash,
retrieving the last saved version of the named file or,
if no file is specified,
typing a list of saved files.
The
.B \-l
option sets up for editing \s-2LISP\s0, setting the
.I showmatch
and
.I lisp
options.
The
.B \-w
option sets the default window size to
.I n,
and is useful on dialups to start in small windows.
The
.B \-x
option causes
.I vi
to prompt for a
.I key
that is used to encrypt and decrypt the contents of the file,
which should already be encrypted using the same key (see
.I crypt (1)).
The
.B \-R
option is equivalent to using
.I view
rather than
.I vi
and sets the
.I readonly
option at the start.
The
.I name ...
arguments indicate files to be edited.
An argument of the form
\f3+\f2command\f1
indicates that the editor should begin by executing the specified command.
If
.I command
is omitted, then it defaults to ``$'', positioning the editor at the last
line of the first file initially.  Other useful commands here are scanning
patterns of the form ``/pat'' or line numbers, e.g. ``+100'' starting
at line 100.
.SH FILES
See
.IR ex (1).
.SH SEE ALSO
ex (1), edit (1), ``Vi Quick Reference'' card,
``An Introduction to Display Editing with Vi''.
.SH AUTHOR
William Joy
.br
Mark Horton added macros to \f2visual\f1 mode and is maintaining version 3
.SH BUGS
The
.I x
command
and
.B \-x
command line option are available only when
the DYNIX Cryptographic Software option has been installed.
.PP
Software tabs using \f3^T\f1 work only immediately after the
.I autoindent.
.PP
Left and right shifts on intelligent terminals don't make use of
insert and delete character operations in the terminal.
.PP
The
.I wrapmargin
option can be fooled since it looks at output columns when blanks are typed.
If a long word passes through the margin and onto the next line without a 
break, then the line won't be broken.
.PP
Insert/delete within a line can be slow if tabs are present on intelligent
terminals, since the terminals need help in doing this correctly.
.PP
Saving text on deletes in the named buffers is somewhat inefficient.
.PP
The
.I source
command does not work when executed as \f3:source\f1;
there is no way to use the \f3:append\f1, \f3:change\f1,
and \f3:insert\f1 commands, since it is not possible to give
more than one line of input to a \f3:\f1 escape.  To use these
on a \f3:global\f1 you must \f3Q\f1 to \f2ex\f1 command mode,
execute them, and then reenter the screen editor with
.I vi
or
.I open.
.PP
If you invoke 
.B vi 
and the system crashes,
you may or may not be able to recover your file.
If your file is still in memory
(the file is less than 64-Kbytes long and has fewer than 12 changes) 
the recover program will fail to work properly.
