.\" $Copyright: $
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: w.1 1.7 1991/06/13 00:00:36 $
.TH W 1 "\*(V)" "4BSD"
.SH NAME
w \- who is on and what they are doing
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B w
[
.B \-dhlsu
] [ user ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B W
prints a summary of the current activity on the system,
including what each user is doing.
The heading line shows the current time of day,
how long the system has been up,
the number of users logged into the system,
and the load averages.
The load average numbers give the number of jobs in the run queue,
divided by the number of processors in the system,
averaged over 1, 5 and 15 minutes.
.PP
The fields output are:
the users login name,
the name of the tty the user is on,
the time of day the user logged on,
the number of minutes since the user last typed anything,
the CPU time used by all processes and their children on that terminal,
the CPU time used by the currently active processes,
the name and arguments of the current process.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-d
Turn on debug information.
.TP
.BI \-h
Suppress printing of the header, which shows
the current time, length of time the system has been up,
and the average number of jobs in the run queue over the
last 1, 5 and 15 minutes.
.TP
.BI \-l
Long-style output (the default).
.TP
.BI \-s
Short-style output, abbreviating tty and omitting login, cpu time and
arguments to commands.
.TP
.BI \-u
Print the header only.
.PP
If a
user
name is included,
the output will be restricted to that user.
.SH FILES
.ta 1i
/etc/utmp
.br
/dev/kmem
.br
/dev/drum
.SH "SEE ALSO"
who(1), finger(1), ps(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Mark Horton
.SH BUGS
The notion of the ``current process'' is muddy.
The current algorithm is ``the highest numbered process on
the terminal that is not ignoring interrupts,
or, if there is none, the highest numbered process on the terminal''.
This fails, for example, in critical sections of programs
like the shell and editor,
or when faulty programs running in the background
fork and fail to ignore interrupts.
(In cases where no process can be found,
.B w
prints \- .)
.PP
The CPU time is only an estimate, in particular, if someone leaves a
background process running after logging out, the person currently
on that terminal is ``charged'' with the time.
.PP
Background processes are not shown, even though they account for
much of the load on the system.
.PP
Sometimes processes, typically those in the background, are
printed with null or garbaged arguments.
In these cases, the name of the command is printed in parentheses.
.PP
.BR W(1) 
does not know about the new conventions for detection of background jobs.
It will sometimes find a background job instead of the right one.
