.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: who.1 1.4 86/05/13 $
.TH WHO 1 "\*(V)" "7th Edition"
.SH NAME
who \- who is on the system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B who
[ who-file ] [
.B "am I"
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Who,
without an argument,
lists the login name, terminal name, and login time
for each current UNIX user.
.PP
Without an argument,
.I who
examines the
.I /etc/utmp
file to obtain its information.
If a file is given, that file is examined.
Typically the given file will be /usr/adm/wtmp,
which contains a record of all the logins since it
was created.
Then
.I who
lists
logins, logouts, and crashes since the creation of
the wtmp file.
Each login is listed with user name,
terminal name (with `/dev/'
suppressed),
and date and time.
When an argument is given, logouts produce a similar line without a user name.
Reboots produce a line with `x' in the place of the device name,
and a fossil time indicative of when the system went down.
.PP
With two arguments,
as in `who am I' (and also `who are you'),
.I who
tells who you are logged in as.
.SH FILES
/etc/utmp
.SH "SEE ALSO"
getuid(2), utmp(5)
