.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: xsend.1 1.4 86/05/13 $
.TH XSEND 1 "\*(V)" "7th Edition"
.SH NAME
xsend, xget, enroll \- secret mail
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xsend
person
.br
.B xget
.br
.B enroll
.SH DESCRIPTION
These commands implement a secure communication
channel;
it is like
.IR mail (1),
but no one can read the messages except the intended recipient.
The method embodies a public-key cryptosystem using knapsacks.
.PP
To receive messages, use
.IR enroll ;
it asks you for a password that you must subsequently quote
in order to receive secret mail.
.PP
To receive secret mail,
use
.IR xget .
It asks for your password, then gives you the messages.
.PP
To send secret mail, use
.IR xsend
in the same manner as the ordinary mail command.
(However, it will accept only one target).
A message announcing the receipt of secret mail is also sent
by ordinary mail.
.SH FILES
/usr/spool/secretmail/*.key: keys
.br
/usr/spool/secretmail/*.[0-9]: messages
.SH SEE ALSO
mail (1)
.SH BUGS
It should be integrated with ordinary mail.
The announcement of secret mail makes traffic analysis possible.
