.\" $Copyright: $
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: zmore.1 1.7 1991/08/06 19:07:11 $
.TH ZMORE 1 "\*(V)" "PUBLIC"
.SH NAME
zmore \- file perusal filter for crt viewing of compressed text
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B zmore
[ name ...  ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Zmore
is a filter which allows examination of compressed text files
one screenful at a time on a soft-copy terminal.
It normally pauses after each screenful, printing --More--
at the bottom of the screen.
If the user then types a carriage return, one more line is displayed.
If the user hits a space,
another screenful is displayed.
Other possibilities are enumerated later.
.PP
.I Zmore
looks in the file
.I /etc/termcap
to determine terminal characteristics,
and to determine the default window size.
On a terminal capable of displaying 24 lines,
the default window size is 22 lines.
.PP
Other sequences which may be typed when
.I zmore
pauses, and their effects, are as follows
.RI ( i
is an optional integer argument, defaulting to 1):
.TP
.IR i <space>
display
.I i
more lines, (or another screenful if no argument is given)
.TP
.IR i^D
display 11 more lines (a ``scroll'').
If
.I i
is given, then the scroll size is set to
.IR i .
.TP
.IR i d
same as ^D (control-D).
.TP
.IR i z
same as typing a space except that
.IR i ,
if present, becomes the new window size.
Note that the window size reverts back to the default at the
end of the current file.
.TP
.IR i s
skip
.I i
lines and print a screenful of lines.
.TP
.IR i f
skip
.I i screenfuls and print a screenful of lines.
.TP
q or Q
quit reading the current file; go on to the next (if any).
.TP
e
When the prompt --More--(Next file:
.IR file )
is printed, this command causes zmore to exit.
.TP
=
Display the current line number.
.TP
.IR i /expr
search for the
.IR i -th
occurrence of the regular expression
.IR expr .
If the pattern is not found,
.I zmore
goes on to the next file (if any).
Otherwise, a screenful is displayed, starting two lines before the place
where the expression was found.
The user's erase and kill characters may be used to edit the regular
expression.
Erasing back past the first column cancels the search command.
.TP
.IR i n
search for the
.IR i -th
occurrence of the last regular expression entered.
.TP
.RI ! command
invoke a shell with
.IR command .
Occurrences of the character `!' in
.I command
are replaced with
the previous shell command.
The sequence ``\e!'' is replaced by ``!''.
.TP
:q or :Q
quit reading the current file; go on to the next (if any)
(same as q or Q).
.TP
\&.
(dot) repeat the previous command.
.PP
The commands take effect immediately; that is, it is not necessary to
type a carriage return.
Up to the time when the command character itself is given,
the user may hit the line kill character to cancel the numerical
argument being formed.
In addition, the user may hit the erase character to redisplay the
--More-- message.
.PP
At any time when output is being sent to the terminal, the user can
hit the quit key (normally control\-\e).
.I Zmore
will stop sending output, and will display the usual --More-- prompt.
The user may then enter one of the above commands in the normal manner.
Unfortunately, some output is lost when this is done, due to the
fact that any characters waiting in the terminal's output queue
are flushed when the quit signal occurs.
.PP
The terminal is set to
.I noecho
mode by this program so that the output can be continuous.
What you type will thus not show on your terminal,
except for the / and ! commands.
.PP
If the standard output is not a teletype, then
.I zmore
acts just like
.I zcat,
except that a header is printed before each file.
.SH FILES
.TP
/etc/termcap
Terminal data base
.SH "SEE ALSO"
more(1), zcat(1), compress(1), uncompress(1)
