.\" $Copyright: $
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
.\"
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: atof.3 1.6 1991/05/23 18:17:55 $
.TH ATOF 3 "\*(V)" "7th Edition"
.SH NAME
atof, atoi, atol \- convert ASCII to numbers
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <math.h>
.PP
.B double atof(nptr)
.B char *nptr;
.PP
.B atoi(nptr)
.B char *nptr;
.PP
.B long atol(nptr)
.B char *nptr;
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
These functions convert a string pointed to by
.I nptr
to floating, integer, and long integer representation respectively.
The first unrecognized character ends the string.
.PP
.I atof
recognizes an optional string of spaces, then an optional sign, then
a string of digits optionally containing a decimal
point, then an optional `e' or `E' followed by an optionally signed integer.
.PP
.I atoi
and
.I atol
recognize an optional string of spaces, then an optional sign, then a
string of
digits.
.SH SEE ALSO
scanf(3S)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.I atof
clears 
.I errno
when no errors are encountered.
If the exponent of the number pointed to by
.I nptr
is excessively large,
.I atof
will set
.I errno
to 
.B ERANGE
and will return
.B MAXDOUBLE .
If the exponent is not legitimate,
.I atof
will set 
.I errno
to 
.B ERANGE
and will return zero.
.SH BUGS
There are no provisions for overflow.
