.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: berkst.3 1.5 86/05/13 $
.TH BERKST 3 "\*(V)" "DYNIX"
.SH NAME
berkst \- read in symbol and string tables in berkeley format
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <nlist.h>
.PP
.B berkst(objfile, symboltable, stringtable)
.B char *objfile;
.B struct nlist **symboltable;
.B char **stringtable;
.PP
.B berkstall(objfile, symboltable, stringtable)
.B char *objfile;
.B struct nlist **symboltable;
.B char **stringtable;
.PP
.B cc file.c -lconv
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Berkst
reads in the symbol and string tables from the executable object file
whose name is given in
.I objfile
and converts them to 4.2bsd format as defined by 
.IR nlist.h (5).
This function is similar to 
.IR nlist (3),
except that
.I berkst
provides a pointer to an array with a definition for
.B every
symbol in the symbol table.
.PP
The arguments
.I symboltable
and
.I stringtable
are the address of pointers that 
.I berkst
will fill in with the location of the tables.
Space for the tables is allocated with
.IR malloc (3).
.PP
.I Berkstall
reads and converts every symbol in the symbol table, while
.I
Berkst
reads and converts only symbol definitions.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Returns the number of bytes of symbol table read or -1 if it
could not read the tables.
No memory will have been allocated if -1 is returned.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
nlist(3), a.out(5), stab(5)
.SH "BUGS"
.I Berkst
will never create an entry whose n_type field is N_BSS.
It considers all non-text symbols to be in the data segment.
Use 
.I Berkstall
to find out about bss symbols.
