.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986 Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.
.\" All rights reserved
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: brk.3p 1.7 87/06/26 $
.TH BRK 3P "\*(V)" "DYNIX"
.SH NAME
brk, sbrk \- change private data segment size
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.nf
\f2C syntax:\fP
.PP
.ft 3
#include <parallel/parallel.h>
caddr_t brk(addr)
caddr_t addr;
.PP
.ft 3
caddr_t sbrk(incr)
int incr;
.PP
\f2Pascal syntax\fP
.PP
none
.PP
\f2FORTRAN syntax\fP
.PP
none
.PP
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
These routines are identical to the standard
.I brk
and
.I sbrk 
(see
.IR brk(2) )
routines except that these routines verify that the
private data segment does not overlap the shared data segment
which follows it.
If the 
.I brk
or
.I sbrk
call will cause the segments to overlap, the routine issues
an error.
.SH ERRORS
If an error occurs, the return value is -1 and the variable
.I errno
contains the error code.
.I Brk
and
.I sbrk
can return the following error codes:
.TP 15
[ENOMEM]
The requested private data segment will overlap the shared
data segment.
.TP 15
[ENOMEM]
The routine cannot allocate file system space to expand the
file which has been memory mapped to the shared data segment
(see
.IR mmap(2) ).
The routine tries to allocate file system space from
directories in the following order:
.sp
1. the directory indicated by the $TMPPATH environmental
variable
.br
2. the current directory
.br
3. the user's home directory
.br
4. the directory
.I /usr/tmp
.br
5. the directory
.I /tmp
.TP 15
[ENOMEM]
The limit, as set by
.IR setrlimit ,
was exceeded.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
execve(2), getrlimit(2), malloc(3), end(3), vm_ctl(2), \f2Guide
to Parallel Programming\fP
.SH "NOTES"
The gap between the private data segment and the shared data
segment can be adjusted by using the 
.B \-Z
linker option (see
.IR ld (1)).
.PP
When \f2brk\fP and \f2sbrk\fP increase a program's address
space, they also attempt to increase its allowable resident set size
(see \f2vm_ctl\fP(2)).
