.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: bstring.3 1.7 86/05/13 $
.TH BSTRING 3 "\*(V)" "4BSD"
.SH NAME
bcopy, bcmp, bzero, ffs \- bit and byte string operations
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B bcopy(b1, b2, length)
.B char *b1, *b2;
.B unsigned int length;
.PP
.B int bcmp(b1, b2, length)
.B char *b1, *b2;
.B unsigned int length;
.PP
.B bzero(b, length)
.B char *b;
.B unsigned int length;
.PP
.B int ffs(i)
.B int i;
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The functions
.IR bcopy ,
.IR bcmp ,
and
.I bzero
operate on variable length strings of bytes.
They do not check for null bytes as the routines in
.IR string (3)
do.
.PP
.I Bcopy
copies 
.I length
bytes from string
.I b1
to the string
.IR b2 .
.PP
.I Bcmp
compares byte string
.I b1
against byte string
.IR b2 ,
returning zero if they are identical,
non-zero otherwise.  Both strings are
assumed to be
.I length
bytes long.
.PP
.I Bzero
places
.I length
0 bytes in the string
.IR b1 .
.PP
.I Ffs
find the first bit set in the argument passed it and
returns the index of that bit.  Bits are numbered
starting at 1.  A return value of zero indicates the
value passed is zero.
.SH BUGS
The
.I bcmp
and 
.I bcopy
routines take parameters backwards from
.I strcmp
and
.IR strcpy .
