.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: ctype.3 1.10 90/02/15 $
.TH CTYPE 3 "\*(V)" "7th Edition"
.SH NAME
isalnum, isalpha, isascii, iscntrl, isdigit, islower, isprint, ispunct, isspace, isupper, toascii, tolower, toupper \- character classification and conversion macros
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <ctype.h>
.PP
.B isalnum(c)
.PP
.B . . .
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I is*
macros classify ASCII-coded integer values
by table lookup.
Each is a predicate returning nonzero for true,
zero for false.
.I Isascii
is defined on all integer values; the rest
are defined only where 
.I isascii
is true and on the single non-ASCII value
EOF (see
.IR stdio (3S)).
If
.I toupper
is provided with a lower case letter (can be ensured by using
.I isascii
and
.I islower
both true) it will return an upper case ASCII character.  Input other than
lower case results in undefined values.  If
.I tolower
is provided with an upper case letter (can be ensured by using
.I isascii
and
.I isupper
both true) it will return a lower-case ASCII character.  Input other than
upper case results in undefined values.
No matter what value
.I c
has,
.I toascii
returns an ASCII character.
.PP
These following macros return non-zero when
.I c
meets the indicated criteria:
.TP 15n
.I isalnum
.I c
is an alphanumeric character
.TP
.I isalpha
.I c
is a letter
.TP
.I isascii
.I c
is an ASCII character, code less than 0200.
.TP
.I iscntrl
.I c
is a delete character (0177) or ordinary control character
(less than 040).
.TP
.I isdigit
.I c
is a digit
.TP
.I islower 
.I c
is a lower case letter
.TP
.I isprint
.I c
is a printing character, code 040(8) (space) through 0176 (tilde)
.TP
.I ispunct
.I c
is a punctuation character (neither control nor alphanumeric)
.TP
.I isspace
.I c
is a space, tab, carriage return, newline, or formfeed
.TP
.I isupper
.I c
is an upper case letter
.SH "SEE ALSO"
ascii(7)
