.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: ethers.3n 1.6 90/07/05 $
.\" @(#)ethers.3n 1.1 85/12/28 SMI; new on release 3.0
.TH ETHERS 3N "\*(V)" "4BSD"
.SH NAME
ether_aton, ether_hostton, ether_line, ether_ntoa, ether_ntohost \- ethernet address mapping operations
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\f3#include <sys/types.h>
#include <sys/socket.h>
#include <net/if.h>
#include <netinet/in.h>
#include <net/if_arp.h>
#include <netinet/if_ether.h>
.sp
struct ether_addr *
ether_aton(s)
	char *s;
.sp
ether_hostton(hostname, e)
	char *hostname;
	struct ether_addr *e;
.sp
ether_line(l, e, hostname)
	char *l;
	struct ether_addr *e;
	char *hostname;
.sp
char *
ether_ntoa(e)
	struct ether_addr *e;
.sp
ether_ntohost(hostname, e)
	char *hostname;
	struct ether_addr *e;\f1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
These routines are useful for mapping 48 bit ethernet numbers to their
ASCII representations or their corresponding host names, and vice versa.
.LP
The function
.I ether_ntoa
converts a 48 bit ethernet number pointed to by
.I e
to its standard ACSII representation;
it returns a pointer to the ASCII string.
The representation is of the form: ``x:x:x:x:x:x'' where
.I x
is a hexadecimal number between 0 and ff.
The function
.I ether_aton
converts an ASCII string in the standard representation back
to a 48 bit ethernet number;  the function returns NULL if the string
cannot be scanned successfully.
.LP
The function 
.I ether_ntohost
maps an ethernet number (pointed to by
.IR e )
to its associated hostname.  The string pointed to by
.I hostname
must be long enough to hold the hostname and a null character.
The function returns zero upon success and non-zero upon failure.
Inversely, the function
.I ether_hostton
maps a hostname string to its corresponding ethernet number;
the function modifies the ethernet number pointed to by
.IR e .
The function also returns zero upon success and non-zero upon failure.
.LP
The function
.I ether_line
scans a line (pointed to by
.IR l )
and sets the hostname and the ethernet number (pointed to by
.IR e ).
The string pointed to by
.I hostname
must be long enough to hold the hostname and a null character.
The function returns zero upon success and non-zero upon failure.
The format of the scanned line is described by
.IR ethers (5).
.SH FILES
/etc/ethers	(or the yellowpages' maps ethers.byaddr and ethers.byname)
.SH "SEE ALSO"
ethers(5)
