.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: exp.3m 1.6 90/02/15 $
.TH EXP 3M "\*(V)" "7th Edition"
.SH NAME
exp, log, log10, pow, sqrt \- exponential, logarithm, power, square root
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <math.h>
.PP
.B double exp(x)
.B double x;
.PP
.B double log(x)
.B double x;
.PP
.B double log10(x)
.B double x;
.PP
.B double pow(x, y)
.B double x, y;
.PP
.B double sqrt(x)
.B double x;
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Exp
returns the exponential function of 
.I x.
.PP
.I Log
returns the natural logarithm of 
.IR x ;
.I log10
returns the base 10 logarithm.
.PP
.I Pow
returns
.if t .IR  x\u\s8y\s10\d .
.if n .IR x**y .
.PP
.I Sqrt
returns the square root of 
.I x.
.SH SEE ALSO
hypot(3M),
sinh(3M),
intro(3M)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.I Exp
and
.I pow
return a huge value when the correct value would overflow;
.I errno
is set to ERANGE.
.I Exp
returns zero when the correct value would underflow;
.I errno
is set to ERANGE.
.I Pow
returns 0 and sets
.I errno
to EDOM when the second argument is negative and non-integral and
when both arguments are 0.
.PP
.I Log
returns 0 when
.I x
is zero or negative;
.I errno
is set to EDOM.
.PP
.I Sqrt
returns 0 when 
.I x
is negative;
.I errno
is set to EDOM.
