.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
.\"
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: frexp.3 1.6 86/08/13 $
.TH FREXP 3 "\*(V)" "7th Edition"
.SH NAME
frexp, ldexp, modf \- split into mantissa and exponent
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B double frexp(value, eptr)
.B double value;
.B int *eptr;
.PP
.B double ldexp(value, exp)
.B double value;
.PP
.B double modf(value, iptr)
.B double value, *iptr;
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Frexp
returns the mantissa of a double
.I value
as a double quantity,
.I x,
of magnitude less than 1
and stores an integer
.I n
such that
.I value
=
.ie t \f2x\fP\|\(**\|2\u\f2n\fP\d
.el \f2x\fP\|\(**\|2**\f2n\fP
indirectly through
.I eptr.
.PP
.I Ldexp
returns the quantity
.ie t \f2value\|\(**\|2\u\f2exp\fP\d.
.el \f2value\|\(**\|2**\f2exp\fP.
.PP
.I Modf
returns the positive fractional part of
.I value
and stores the integer part indirectly
through
.I iptr.
