.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: getfsent.3x 1.5 86/05/13 $
.TH GETFSENT 3X "\*(V)" "4BSD"
.SH NAME
getfsent, getfsspec, getfsfile, getfstype, setfsent, endfsent \- get file system descriptor file entry
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <fstab.h>
.PP
.B struct fstab *getfsent()
.PP
.B struct fstab *getfsspec(spec)
.B char *spec;
.PP
.B struct fstab *getfsfile(file)
.B char *file;
.PP
.B struct fstab *getfstype(type)
.B char *type;
.PP
.B int setfsent()
.PP
.B int endfsent()
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IR Getfsent ,
.IR getfsspec ,
.IR getfstype ,
and
.I getfsfile
each return a pointer to an object with the following structure
containing the broken-out fields of a line in the file system description file,
.IR < fstab.h >.
.RS
.PP
.nf
struct fstab{
	char	*fs_spec;
	char	*fs_file;
	char	*fs_type;
	int	fs_freq;
	int	fs_passno;
};
.ft 1
.ad
.fi
.RE
.PP
The fields have meanings described in
.IR fstab (5).
.PP
.I Getfsent
reads the next line of the file, opening the file if necessary.
.PP
.I Setfsent
opens and rewinds the file.
.PP
.I Endfsent
closes the file.
.PP
.I Getfsspec
and
.I getfsfile
sequentially search from the beginning of the file until a matching
special file name or file system file name is found,
or until EOF is encountered.
.I Getfstype
does likewise, matching on the file system type field.
.SH FILES
/etc/fstab
.SH "SEE ALSO"
fstab(5)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Null pointer
(0) returned on EOF or error.
.SH BUGS
All information is contained in a static area so it must be copied if it is
to be saved.
