.\" $Copyright:	$
."Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
."Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
." 
."This software is furnished under a license and may be used
."only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
."inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
."be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
."other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
."hereby transferred.
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987 Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.
.\" All rights reserved
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: getgrent.3 1.3 90/10/09 $
.TH GETGRENT 3 "\*(V)" "7th Edition"
.SH NAME
getgrent, getgrgid, getgrnam, setgrent, endgrent \- get group file entry
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <grp.h>
.PP
.B struct group *getgrent()
.PP
.B struct group *getgrgid(gid)
.B int gid;
.PP
.B struct group *getgrnam(name)
.B char *name;
.PP
.B setgrent()
.PP
.B endgrent()
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Getgrent,
.I getgrgid
and
.I getgrnam
each return pointers
to an object
with the following structure
containing the broken-out
fields of a line in the group file.
.RS
.PP
.nf
struct	group { /* see getgrent(3) */
	char	*gr_name;
	char	*gr_passwd;
	int	gr_gid;
	char	**gr_mem;
};

struct group *getgrent(), *getgrgid(), *getgrnam();
.fi
.RE
.PP
The members of this structure are:
.TP \w'gr_passwd'u+2n
gr_name
The name of the group.
.br
.ns
.TP \w'gr_passwd'u+2n
gr_passwd
The encrypted password of the group.
.br
.ns
.TP \w'gr_passwd'u+2n
gr_gid
The numerical group-ID.
.br
.ns
.TP \w'gr_passwd'u+2n
gr_mem
Null-terminated vector
of pointers to the individual
member names.
.PP
.I Getgrent
simply reads the next
line while
.I getgrgid
and
.I getgrnam
search until a matching
.I gid
or
.I name
is found
(or until EOF is encountered).
Each routine picks up
where the others leave off
so successive calls may be used
to search the entire file.
.PP
A call to
.I setgrent
has the effect of rewinding
the group file
to allow
repeated searches.
.I Endgrent
may be called to
close the group file
when processing is complete.
.SH FILES
.nf
/etc/group
/etc/yp/\f2domainname\f1/group.byname
/etc/yp/\f2domainname\f1/group.bygid
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
getlogin(3), getpwent(3), group(5), ypserv(8)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
A null pointer
(0) is returned on EOF or error.
.SH BUGS
All information is contained in a static area
so it must be copied if it is to be saved.
.PP
The functions
.I setgrent
and
.I endgrent
do not return a value, but are declared as integer functions
to maintain compatibility.
