.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: getnetgrent.3n 1.6 87/06/21 $
.\" @(#)getnetgrent.3n 1.1 85/12/28 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.TH GETNETGRENT 3N "\*(V)" "4BSD"
.SH NAME
endnetgrent, getnetgrent, innetgr, setnetgrent \- get network group entry
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\f3endnetgrent()
.sp
getnetgrent(machinep, userp, domainp)
char **machinep, **userp, **domainp;
.sp
innetgr(netgroup, machine, user, domain)
char *netgroup, *machine, *user, *domain;
.sp
setnetgrent(netgroup)
char *netgroup;\f1
.fi
.\".IX  "get network group entry"
.\".IX  "set network group entry"
.\".IX  "network group entry"  get
.\".IX  "group entry"  "get network"
.\".IX  "getnetgrent function"  ""  "\f2getnetgrent\fP \(em get network group entry"
.\".IX  "setnetgrent function"  ""  "\f2setnetgrent\fP \(em get network group entry"
.\".IX  "endnetgrent function"  ""  "\f2endnetgrent\fP \(em get network group entry"
.\".IX  "innetgr function"  ""  "\f2innetgr\fP \(em get network group entry"
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIInngetgr\fP returns 1 or 0, depending on whether
\fInetgroup\fP contains the machine, user, domain triple as a member.
Any of the three strings machine, user, or domain can be NULL, in
which case it signifies a wild card.
.PP
\fIGetnetgrent\fP
returns the next member of a network group.  After the call,
.I machinep
contains a pointer to a string containing the name
of the machine part of the network group member, and similarly
for
.I userp
and
\f2domainp\f1.
If any of
\f2machinep\f1,
\f2userp\f1,
or
.I domainp
is returned as a NULL pointer, it signifies a wild card.
.I Getnetgrent
\f2malloc\f1s
space for the name.
This space is released when a
.I endnetgrent
call is made.
.I Getnetgrent
returns 1 if it succeeds in obtaining another member of the network group;
0 if it has reached the end of the group.
.PP
.I Setnetgrent
establishes the network group from which
.I getnetgrent
obtains members and restarts calls to
.I getnetgrent
from the beginning of the list.
If the previous
.I setnetgrent
call was to a different network group,
a
.I endnetgrent
call is implied.
.I Endnetgrent
frees the space allocated during the
.I getnetgrent
calls.
.SH FILES
.nf
/etc/netgroup
/etc/yp/\f2domain\f1/netgroup
/etc/yp/\f2domain\f1/netgroup.byhost
/etc/yp/\f2domain\f1/netgroup.byuser
.fi
