.\" $Copyright:	$
."Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
."Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
." 
."This software is furnished under a license and may be used
."only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
."inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
."be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
."other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
."hereby transferred.
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987 Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.
.\" All rights reserved
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: getpwent.3 1.3 90/10/09 $
.TH GETPWENT 3 "\*(V)" "7th Edition"
.SH NAME
getpwent, getpwuid, getpwnam, setpwent, endpwent \- get password file entry
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <pwd.h>
.PP
.B struct passwd *getpwent()
.PP
.B struct passwd *getpwuid(uid)
.B int uid;
.PP
.B struct passwd *getpwnam(name)
.B char *name;
.PP
.B setpwent()
.PP
.B endpwent()
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Getpwent,
.I getpwuid
and
.I getpwnam
each return a pointer to an object with the
following structure
containing the broken-out
fields of a line in the password file.
.RS
.PP
.nf
struct	passwd { /* see getpwent(3) */
	char	*pw_name;
	char	*pw_passwd;
	int	pw_uid;
	int	pw_gid;
	int	pw_quota;
	char	*pw_comment;
	char	*pw_gecos;
	char	*pw_dir;
	char	*pw_shell;
};

struct passwd *getpwent(), *getpwuid(), *getpwnam();
.ft 1
.ad
.fi
.RE
.PP
The fields
.I pw_quota
and
.I pw_comment
are unused; the others have meanings described in
.IR passwd (5).
.PP
.I Getpwent
reads the next
line (opening the file if necessary);
.I setpwent
rewinds the file;
.I endpwent
closes it.
.PP
.I Getpwuid
and
.I getpwnam
search from the beginning until a matching
.I uid
or
.I name
is found
(or until EOF is encountered).
.SH FILES
.nf
/etc/passwd
/etc/yp/\f2domainname\f1/passwd.byname
/etc/yp/\f2domainname\f1/passwd.byuid
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
getlogin(3), getgrent(3), passwd(5), ypserv(8)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Null pointer
(0) returned on EOF or error.
.SH BUGS
All information
is contained in a static area
so it must be copied if it is
to be saved.
.PP
The functions
.I setpwent
and
.I endpwent
do not return a value, but are declared as integer functions
to maintain compatibility.
.br
