.\" $Copyright:	$
.\"Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989 
.\"Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\"This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\"only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\"inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\"be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\"other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\"hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: getscsiinfo.3 1.2 91/02/28 $
.TH GETSCSIINFO 3 "\*(V)" "DYNIX"
.SH NAME
getscsiinfo, getscsimatch \- get scsiinfo structure
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f3#include <zdc/zdc.h>
.br
\f3#include <diskinfo.h>
.PP
\f3struct scsiinfo *
.br
getscsimatch(vendor, product)
.br
char *vendor, *product;
.PP
\f3struct scsiinfo *
.br
getscsiinfo()\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B getscsimatch
takes the vendor and product names of the disk as returned by
the SCSI INQUIRY command and locates the \f2.scsi\f1 (e.g. wren3.scsi)
file in
.I /etc/diskinfo
with matching vendor and product strings.  It then returns the
data in this file in a \f2scsiinfo\f1 structure.  
.B getscsiinfo
finds the next \f2.scsi\f1 file in
.I /etc/diskinfo
and creates and returns a \f2scsiinfo\f1 structure built from that file.
On error or when there are no more \f2.scsi\f1 files in the directory,
.SM
.B NULL
is returned.
This information is used by the 
.B format
program.  Note that the vendor string must be padded with blanks to
be 8 characters long, and the product string must be padded to 16
characters, as this is the way the strings are returned by the
SCSI INQUIRY command.
See
.I /usr/include/diskinfo.h
for a description of the fields in
.IR "struct scsiinfo" .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR diskinfo (5)
.BR format (8)
.SH NOTES
This are Sequent library routines.  To use them, specify the
\f3-lseq\f1 option to link with the Sequent library.  Since
this is a Sequent extension, code using this routine may not be
portable to other systems.
