.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
.\"
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: gets.3s 1.5 86/08/13 $
.TH GETS 3S "\*(V)" "7th Edition"
.SH NAME
gets, fgets \- get a string from a stream
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <stdio.h>
.PP
.B char *gets(s)
.B char *s;
.PP
.B char *fgets(s, n, stream)
.B char *s;
.B int n;
.br
.fi
.SM
.B FILE
.B *stream;
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Gets
reads a string into
.I s
from the standard input stream
.BR stdin .
The string is terminated by a newline
character, which is replaced in
.I s
by a null character.
.I Gets
returns its argument.
.PP
.I Fgets
reads
.IR n \-1
characters, or up to a newline
character, whichever comes first,
from the
.I stream
into the string
.IR s .
The last character read into
.I s
is followed by a null character.
.I Fgets
returns its first argument.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
puts(3S),
getc(3S),
scanf(3S),
fread(3S),
ferror(3S)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.I Gets
and
.I fgets
return the constant pointer
.SM
.B NULL
upon end of file or error.
.SH BUGS
.I Gets
deletes a newline,
.I fgets
keeps it,
all in the name of backward compatibility.
