.\"Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989 
.\"Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\"This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\"only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\"inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\"be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\"other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\"hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: getzdinfo.3 1.3 91/02/28 $
.TH GETZDINFO 3 "\*(V)" "DYNIX"
.SH NAME
getzdinfo, getzdinfobyname \- get zdinfo structure
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\f3#include <zdc/zdc.h>
\f3#include <diskinfo.h>

struct zdinfo *
getzdinfobyname(disktype)
char *disktype;

struct zdinfo *
getzdinfo()\fP
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B getzdinfobyname
takes a disk type name (e.g. m2333k) and returns a structure
containing the disk type name and the ZDC channel configuration
data for that disk type.  All information
is obtained from files in the directory
.I /etc/diskinfo
which end in the suffix \f2.zd\f1.  Each of these
files contains the channel configuration data for one disk type.
.B getzdinfo
finds the next '\f2.zd\f1' file in
.I /etc/diskinfo
and creates and returns a zdinfo structure built from that file.
On error or when there are no more \f2.zd\f1 files in the directory,
.SM
.B NULL
is returned.
This information is provided primarily for use by the 
.I format
program.
See
.I /usr/include/diskinfo.h
and
.I /usr/include/sys/zdc.h
for a description of the fields in
.IR "struct zdinfo" .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR diskinfo (5)
.BR format (8)
.SH NOTES
These are Sequent library routines.  To use them, specify the
\f3-lseq\f1 option to link with the Sequent library.  Since
this is a Sequent extension, code using this routine may not be
portable to other systems.
