.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: intro.3c 1.6 86/05/13 $
.TH INTRO 3C "\*(V)" "4BSD"
.SH NAME
intro \- introduction to compatibility library functions
.SH DESCRIPTION
These functions constitute the compatibility library portion
of
.IR libc .
They are automatically loaded as needed by the C compiler
.IR cc (1).
The link editor searches this library under the \*(lq\-lc\*(rq option.
Use of these routines should, for the most part, be avoided.
Manual entries for the functions in this library describe
the proper routine to use.
.SH "LIST OF FUNCTIONS"
.sp 2
.nf
.ta \w'vtimes'u+2n +\w'vtimes.3c'u+10n
\f2Name\fP	\f2Appears on Page\fP	\f2Description\fP
.ta \w'vtimes'u+4n +\w'vtimes.3c'u+4n
.sp 5p
alarm	alarm.3c	schedule signal after specified time
ftime	time.3c	get date and time
getpw	getpw.3c	get name from uid
gtty	stty.3c	set and get terminal state (defunct)
nargs	nargs.3c	get argument count
nice	nice.3c	set program priority
pause	pause.3c	stop until signal
rand	rand.3c	random number generator
signal	signal.3c	simplified software signal facilities
srand	rand.3c	random number generator
stty	stty.3c	set and get terminal state (defunct)
time	time.3c	get date and time
times	times.3c	get process times
utime	utime.3c	set file times
vlimit	vlimit.3c	control maximum system resource consumption
vtimes	vtimes.3c	get information about resource utilization
.fi
