.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: intro.3m 1.6 87/07/13 $
.TH INTRO 3M "\*(V)" "4BSD"
.SH NAME
intro \- introduction to mathematical library functions
.SH DESCRIPTION
These functions constitute the math library,
.I libm.
They are automatically loaded as needed by the Fortran compiler
.IR fortran (1).
The link editor searches this library under the \*(lq\-lm\*(rq option.
Declarations for these functions may be obtained from the include file
.RI < math.h >.
.SH "LIST OF FUNCTIONS"
.sp 2
.nf
.ta \w'atan2'u+2n +\w'gamma.3m'u+10n
\f2Name\fP	\f2Appears on Page\fP	\f2Description\fP
.ta \w'atan2'u+4n +\w'gamma.3m'u+4n
.sp 5p
acos	sin.3m	trigonometric functions
asin	sin.3m	trigonometric functions
atan	sin.3m	trigonometric functions
atan2	sin.3m	trigonometric functions
cabs	hypot.3m	Euclidean distance
ceil	floor.3m	absolute value, floor, ceiling functions
cos	sin.3m	trigonometric functions
cosh	sinh.3m	hyperbolic functions
exp	exp.3m	exponential, logarithm, power, square root
fabs	floor.3m	absolute value, floor, ceiling functions
floor	floor.3m	absolute value, floor, ceiling functions
gamma	gamma.3m	log gamma function
hypot	hypot.3m	Euclidean distance
j0	j0.3m	bessel functions
j1	j0.3m	bessel functions
jn	j0.3m	bessel functions
log	exp.3m	exponential, logarithm, power, square root
log10	exp.3m	exponential, logarithm, power, square root
pow	exp.3m	exponential, logarithm, power, square root
sin	sin.3m	trigonometric functions
sinh	sinh.3m	hyperbolic functions
sqrt	exp.3m	exponential, logarithm, power, square root
tan	sin.3m	trigonometric functions
tanh	sinh.3m	hyperbolic functions
y0	j0.3m	bessel functions
y1	j0.3m	bessel functions
yn	j0.3m	bessel functions
.fi
