.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986 Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.
.\" All rights reserved
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: m_sync.3p 1.6 90/02/07 $
.TH M_SYNC 3P "\*(V)" "DYNIX"
.SH NAME
m_sync \- check in at barrier
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\f2C syntax:\fP
.PP
\f3#include <parallel/microtask.h>
m_sync();\fP
.PP
\f2Pascal syntax\fP
.PP
\f3procedure m_sync;\fP
\f3cexternal;\fP
.PP
\f2FORTRAN syntax\fP
.PP
\f3subroutine m_sync\fP
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I m_sync
routine causes a process to spin until all cooperating
processes have
reached the same point and called 
.IR m_sync .
The program must not call the 
.I m_sync
routine unless there are multiple processes executing; that is, unless
the program is executing a subprogram during an
.I m_fork
call and is not between a pair of
.IR m_single/m_multi ,
.IR m_lock/m_unlock ,
or
.I s_lock/s_unlock
calls.
.SH NOTES
Calls to
.I m_sync 
reset the global counter (see
.IR m_next ).
.SH RETURN VALUE
Upon successful completion, a value of 0 is returned.
Otherwise, a value of \-1 is returned and
.I errno
is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
These routines can return the following error:
.TP 15
[EINVAL]
There are no child processes executing.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
m_set_procs(3P), m_fork(3P), m_single(3P), m_park_procs(3P),
m_kill_procs(3P), m_next(3P), \f2Guide to Parallel
Programming\fP
