.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: nlist.3 1.6 86/05/13 $
.TH NLIST 3 "\*(V)" "4BSD/DYNIX"
.SH NAME
nlist \- get entries from name list
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <nlist.h>
.PP
.B nlist(filename, nl)
.B char *filename;
.B struct nlist nl[];
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Nlist
examines the name list in the given executable output file
and selectively extracts a list of values.
The name list consists of an array of structures containing names,
types and values.
The list is terminated with a null name.
Each name is looked up in the name list of the file.
If the name is found, the type and value of the
name are inserted in the next two fields.
If the name is not found, both entries are set to 0.
See
.IR a.out (5)
for the structure declaration.
.PP
This subroutine is useful for examining the system name list kept in the file
.BR /dynix .
In this way programs can obtain system addresses that are up to date.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
a.out(5)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
If the file cannot be found or if it is not a valid namelist \-1 is returned;
otherwise, the number of unfound namelist entries is returned.
.PP
The type entry is set to 0 if the symbol is not found.
