.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: plot.3x 1.5 86/05/13 $
.TH PLOT 3X "\*(V)" "7th Edition"
.SH NAME
plot: openpl, erase, label, line, circle, arc, move, cont, point, linemod, space, closepl \- graphics interface
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B openpl()
.PP
.B erase()
.PP
.B label(s)
.B char s[];
.PP
.B line(x1, y1, x2, y2)
.PP
.B circle(x, y, r)
.PP
.B arc(x, y, x0, y0, x1, y1)
.PP
.B move(x, y)
.PP
.B cont(x, y)
.PP
.B point(x, y)
.PP
.B linemod(s)
.B char s[];
.PP
.B space(x0, y0, x1, y1)
.PP
.B closepl()
.fi
.PP
.ft 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
These subroutines generate graphic output in a relatively
device-independent manner.  See
.IR  plot (5)
for a description of their effect.
.I Openpl
must be used before any of the others to open the device for writing.
.I Closepl
flushes the output.
.PP
String arguments to
.I label
and
.I linemod
are null-terminated, and do not contain newlines.
.PP
Various flavors of these functions exist for different output devices. 
They are obtained by the following
.IR ld (1)
options:
.TP 8n
.B \-lplot
device-independent graphics stream on standard output for 
.IR plot (1)
filters
.br
.ns
.TP
.B \-l300
GSI 300 terminal
.br
.ns
.TP
.B \-l300s
GSI 300S terminal
.br
.ns
.TP
.B \-l450
DASI 450 terminal
.br
.ns
.TP
.B \-l4014
Tektronix 4014 terminal
.SH "SEE ALSO"
plot(5), plot(1G), graph(1G)
