.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: psignal.3 1.4 86/05/13 $
.TH PSIGNAL 3 "\*(V)" "4BSD"
.SH NAME
psignal, sys_siglist \- system signal messages
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B psignal(sig, s)
.B unsigned sig;
.B char *s;
.PP
.B char *sys_siglist[];
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Psignal
produces a short message
on the standard error file
describing the indicated signal.
First the argument string
.I s
is printed, then a colon, then the name of the signal
and a new-line.
Most usefully, the argument string is the name
of the program which incurred the signal.
The signal number should be from among those found
in
.IR <signal.h> .
.PP
To simplify variant formatting
of signal names, the vector of message strings
.I sys_siglist
is provided;
the signal number
can be used as an index in this table to get the
signal name without the newline.
The define NSIG defined in
.RI < signal.h >
is the number of messages provided for in the table;
it should be checked because new
signals may be added to the system before
they are added to the table.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
sigvec(2),
perror(3)
