.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: rnusers.3r 1.5 87/07/02 $
.\" @(#)rnusers.3r 1.1 85/12/28 SMI; new on release 3.0
.TH RNUSERS 3R "\*(V)" "4BSD"
.SH NAME
rnusers, rusers \- return information about users on remote machines
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft 3
#include <rpcsvc/rusers.h>
.sp
rnusers(host)
	char *host
.sp
rusers(host, up)
	char *host
	struct utmpidlearr *up;
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Rnusers
returns the number of users logged on to
.I host
(\-1 if it cannot determine that number).
.I Rusers
fills the
.I utmpidlearr
structure with data about
.IR host ,
and returns 0 if successful.
The relevant structures are:
.ta \w'struct\0\0'u +\w'struct utmp\0\0\0'u
.Ps
struct utmparr {	/* RUSERSVERS_ORIG */
	struct utmp	**uta_arr;
	int	uta_cnt
};
.sp
.ta \w'struct\0\0'u +\w'struct utmp\0\0\0'u
struct utmpidle {
	struct utmp	ui_utmp;
	unsigned	ui_idle;
};
.sp
.ta \w'struct\0\0'u +\w'struct utmpidle\0\0\0'u
struct utmpidlearr {	/* RUSERSVERS_IDLE */
	struct utmpidle	**uia_arr;
	int	uia_cnt
};
.Pe
.SH "RPC INFO"
.ta 0.5i 1.0i 1.5i
.nf
program number:
	RUSERSPROG
.sp
xdr routines:
	int xdr_utmp(xdrs, up)
		XDR *xdrs;
		struct utmp *up;
	int xdr_utmpidle(xdrs, ui);
		XDR *xdrs;
		struct utmpidle *ui;
	int xdr_utmpptr(xdrs, up);
		XDR *xdrs;
		struct utmp **up;
	int xdr_utmpidleptr(xdrs, up);
		XDR *xdrs;
		struct utmpidle **up;
	int xdr_utmparr(xdrs, up);
		XDR *xdrs;
		struct utmparr *up;
	int xdr_utmpidlearr(xdrs, up);
		XDR *xdrs;
		struct utmpidlearr *up;
.fi
.PP
procs:
.in +0.5i
.nf
RUSERSPROC_NUM
.fi
.in +0.5i
No arguments,
returns number of users as an \fIunsigned long\fP.
.in -0.5i
.nf
RUSERSPROC_NAMES
.fi
.in +0.5i
No arguments,
returns \fIutmparr\fP or \fIutmpidlearr\fP,
depending on version number.
.in -0.5i
.nf
RUSERPROC_ALLNAMES
.fi
.in +0.5i
No arguments,
returns \fIutmparr\fP or \fIutmpidlearr\fP,
depending on version number.
Returns listing even for \fIutmp\fP entries satisfying \fInonuser()\fP in \fIutmp.h\fP.
.in -0.5i
.PP
versions:
.in +0.5i
.nf
RUSERSVERS_ORIG
RUSERSVERS_IDLE
.fi
.in -0.5i
.PP
structures:
.nf
.in +0.5i
(Refer to the DESCRIPTION section.)
.fi
.in -0.5i
.SH "SEE ALSO"
rusers(1),
rusersd(8c)
