.\" $Copyright: $
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: sin.3m 1.5 1991/06/12 01:26:48 $
.TH SIN 3M "\*(V)" "7th Edition"
.SH NAME
sin, cos, tan, asin, acos, atan, atan2 \- trigonometric functions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <math.h>
.PP
.B double sin(x)
.B double x;
.PP
.B double cos(x)
.B double x;
.PP
.B double asin(x)
.B double x;
.PP
.B double acos(x)
.B double x;
.PP
.B double atan(x)
.B double x;
.PP
.B double atan2(x, y)
.B double x, y;
.PP
.B double tan(x)
.B double x;
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Sin, cos
and
.I tan
return trigonometric functions of radian arguments.
The magnitude of the argument should be checked
by the caller to make sure the result is meaningful.
.PP
Note that in the following examples, when viewed on a tty,
the pi symbol is represented with the character J.
.PP
.I Asin
returns the arc sin in the range \-\(*p/2 to \(*p/2.
.PP
.I Acos
returns the arc cosine in the range 0 to \(*p.
.PP
.I Atan
returns the arc tangent of
.I x
in the range \-\(*p/2 to \(*p/2.
.PP
.I Atan2
returns the arc tangent of
.I x/y
in the range \-\(*p to \(*p.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Arguments of magnitude greater than 1 cause
.I asin
and
.I acos
to return value 0;
.I errno
is set to EDOM.  The value of
.I tan
at its singular points is a huge number, and
.I errno
is set to ERANGE.
.SH BUGS
The value of
.I tan
for arguments greater than about 2**31 is garbage.
