.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: sleep.3 1.5 90/02/07 $
.TH SLEEP 3 "\*(V)" "4BSD"
.SH NAME
sleep \- suspend execution for interval
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B sleep(seconds)
.B unsigned seconds;
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The current process is suspended from execution for the number
of seconds specified by the argument.
The actual suspension time may be up to 1 second less than
that requested, because scheduled wakeups occur at fixed 1-second intervals,
and an arbitrary amount longer because of other activity
in the system.
.PP
The routine is implemented by setting an interval timer
and pausing until it occurs.
The previous state of this timer is saved and restored.
If the sleep time exceeds the time to the expiration of the
previous timer,
the process sleeps only until the signal would have occurred, and the
signal is sent 1 second later.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
setitimer(2), sigpause(2)
.SH BUGS
An interface with finer resolution is needed.
.PP
The function
.I sleep
does not return a value, but is declared as an integer function
to maintain compatibility.
