.\" $Copyright:	$
."Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
."Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
." 
."This software is furnished under a license and may be used
."only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
."inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
."be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
."other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
."hereby transferred.
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986 Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.
.\" All rights reserved
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: times.3c 1.2 90/10/09 $
.TH TIMES 3C "\*(V)" "4BSD"
.SH NAME
times \- get process times
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B "#include <sys/types.h>
.B "#include <sys/times.h>
.PP
.B times(buffer)
.B struct tms *buffer;
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.ft 3
This interface is obsoleted by getrusage(2).
.ft 1
.PP
.I Times
returns time-accounting information
for the current process
and for the terminated child processes
of the current process.
All times are in 60ths of a second
(even in installations configured for 50 Hz powerline frequency).
.PP
This is the structure returned by
.IR times :
.PP
.nf
/*
Structure returned by old times() interface
*/
structure tms {
	time_t	tms_utime;		/* user time */
	time_t	tms_stime;		/* system time */
	time_t	tms_cutime;		/* user time, children */
	time_t	tms_ctime;		/* system time, children */
};
.PP
.fi
The children times are the sum
of the children's process times and
their children's times.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
time(1), getrusage(2), wait3(2), time(3)
