.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: yppasswd.3r 1.4 87/05/26 $
.\" @(#)yppasswd.3r 1.1 85/12/28 SMI; new on release 3.0
.TH YPPASSWD 3R "\*(V)" "4BSD"
.SH NAME
yppasswd \- update user password in yellow pages
.SH SYNPOSIS
.nf
\f3#include <rpcsvc/yppasswd.h>
.sp
yppasswd(oldpass, newpw)
	char *oldpass;
	struct passwd *newpw;\f1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
If
.I oldpass
is indeed the old user password,
.I yppasswd
replaces the password entry with
.IR newpw .
It returns 0 if successful.
.SH RPC INFO
.nf
program number:
	YPPASSWDPROG
.sp 1
xdr routines:
	xdr_ppasswd(xdrs, yp)
		XDR *xdrs;
		struct yppasswd *yp;
	xdr_yppasswd(xdrs, pw)
		XDR *xdrs;
		struct passwd *pw;
procs:
	YPPASSWDPROC_UPDATE
		Takes \fIstruct yppasswd\fP as argument, returns integer.
		Same behavior as \fIyppasswd()\fP wrapper.
		Uses UNIX authentication.
versions:
	YPPASSWDVERS_ORIG
.sp 1	
structures:
	struct yppasswd {
		char *oldpass;	/* old (unencrypted) password */
		struct passwd newpw;	/* new pw structure */
	};
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
yppasswd(1), yppasswdd(8C)
