.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: makedbm.8 1.5 89/07/28 $
.\" @(#)makedbm.8 1.1 85/12/28 SMI; 
.TH MAKEDBM 8 "\*(V)" "4BSD"
.SH NAME
makedbm \- make a yellow pages dbm file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.TP 10
.B makedbm
[
.B \-b
] 
[
.B \-i
.I yp_input_file
] 
[
.B \-o
.I yp_output_name
] 
[
.B \-d
.I yp_domain_name
] 
.br
[
.B \-m
.I yp_master_name
] 
.I infile
.I outfile
.TP 10
.B makedbm
[
.B \-u
.I dbmfilename
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\".IX  "makedbm command"  ""  "\f2makedbm\fP \(em make yellow pages dbm file"
.\".IX  "make yellow pages dbm file"  ""  "make yellow pages dbm file \(em \f2makedbm\fP"
.\".IX  "create yellow pages dbm file"  ""  "create yellow pages dbm file \(em \f2makedbm\fP"
.\".IX  "yellow pages"  "make dbm file"  ""  "make dbm file \(em \f2makedbm\fP"
.I Makedbm
takes
.I infile
and converts it to a pair of files in
.I dbm
(3X) format,
namely
\f2outfile\f3.pag\fP
and
\f2outfile\f3.dir\fP.
Each line of the input file is converted to a single
.I dbm
record.
All characters up to the first tab or space form the key,
and the rest of the line is the data.
If a line ends with \e,
then the data for that record is continued on to the next line.
It is left for the clients of the yellow pages to interpret #;
.I makedbm
does not treat it as a comment character.
.I infile
can be \-,
in which case standard input is read.
.LP
.I makedbm
is meant to be used in generating
.I dbm
files for the yellow pages,
and it generates a special entry with the key
.IR yp_last_modified ,
which is the date of
.I infile
(or the current time, if
.I infile
is \-).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -b
Interdomain.  Propagate a map to all servers using the
interdomain name server named(8C).
.TP
.B \-i
Create a special entry with the key 
.IR yp_input_file .
.TP
.B \-o
Create a special entry with the key 
.IR yp_output_name .
.TP
.B \-d
Create a special entry with the key 
.IR yp_domain_name .
.TP
.B \-m
Create a special entry with the key 
.IR yp_master_name .  
If no master host name is specified, 
.IR yp_master_name 
is set to the local host name.
.TP
.B \-u
Undo a
.I dbm
file.
That is,
print out a
.I dbm
file one entry per line,
with a single space separating keys from values.
.SH EXAMPLE
.LP
It is easy to write shell scripts
to convert standard files such as
.I /etc/passwd
to the key value form used by
.IR makedbm .
For example,
.IP
.\" .ft L
 #!/bin/awk -f
 BEGIN { FS = ":"; OFS = "\et"; }
 { print $1, $0 }
.\" .ft R
.LP
takes the
.I /etc/passwd
file and converts it to a form that can be read by
.I makedbm
to make the yellow pages file
.IR passwd.byname .
That is, the key is a username,
and the value is the remaining line in the
.I /etc/passwd
file.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
yppasswd(1),
dbm(3X)
