.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: nfsstat.8 1.5 87/06/23 $
.\" @(#)nfsstat.8 1.1 85/12/28 SMI;
.TH NFSSTAT 8 "\*(V)" "4BSD"
.SH NAME
nfsstat \- Network File System statistics
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nfsstat
[
.B \-csnrz
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\".IX  "nfsstat command"  ""  "\f2nfsstat\fP \(em display network statistics"
.\".IX  "NFS statistics"  "display"  ""  "display \(em \f2nfsstat\fP"
.\".IX  "statistics of NFS"  display  ""  "display \(em \f2nfsstat\fP"
.I Nfsstat
displays statistical information about the
Network File System (NFS) and
Remote Procedure Call (RPC)
interfaces to the kernel.
It can also be used to reinitialize this information.
If no options are given,
the default is
.Ps
nfsstat \-csnr
.Pe
That is,
print everything and reinitialize nothing.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-c
Display client information.
Only the client side NFS and RPC information is printed.
Can be combined with the
.B \-n
and
.B \-r
options to print client NFS or client RPC information only.
.TP
.B \-s
Display server information.
Works like the
.B \-c
option above.
.TP
.B \-n
Display NFS information.
NFS information for both the client and server side is printed.
Can be combined with the
.B \-c
and
.B \-s
options to print client or server NFS information only.
.TP
.B \-r
Display RPC information.
Works like the
.B \-n
option above.
.TP
.B \-z
Zero (reinitialize) statistics.
Can be combined with any of the above options to
zero particular sets of statistics after printing them.
The user must have write permission on
.I /dev/kmem
for this option to work.
.SH FILES
.ta \w'/dev/kmem\0\0\0'u
/dynix 	system namelist
.br
/dev/kmem	kernel memory
.SH "SEE ALSO"
nfs(4)
