.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: showmount.8 1.3 87/04/02 $
.\" @(#)showmount.8 1.1 85/12/28 SMI;
.TH SHOWMOUNT 8 "\*(V)" "4BSD"
.SH NAME
showmount \- show all remote mounts
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/etc/showmount
[
.B \-a
] [
.B \-d
] [
.B \-e
] [ host ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\".IX  "showmount command"  ""  "\f2showmount\fP \(em display remote mounts"
.I Showmount
lists all of the clients
that have remotely mounted a filesystem from
.IR host .
This information is maintained by the
.IR mountd (8c)
server on
.IR host ,
and is saved across crashes in the file
.IR /etc/rmtab .
The default value for
.I host
is the value returned by
.IR hostname (1).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-d
List directories that have been remotely mounted by clients.
.TP
.B \-a
Print all remote mounts in the format
.Ps
\f2hostname:directory\fP
.Pe
where
.I hostname
is the name of the client, and
.I directory
is the root of the file system that has been mounted.
.TP
.B \-e
Print the list of exported file systems.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
exports(5),
rmtab(5),
mountd(8)
.SH BUGS
If a client crashes, its entry will not be removed from the list
until it reboots and executes
.IR "umount \-a" .
