.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: ypinit.8 1.5 87/07/24 $
.\" @(#)ypinit.8 1.1 85/12/28 SMI; 
.TH YPINIT 8 "\*(V)" "4BSD"
.SH NAME
ypinit - build and install yellow pages database
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ypinit
.B \-m
.br
.B ypinit
.B \-s
master_name
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\".IX  "ypinit command"  ""  "\f2ypinit\fP \(em make yellow pages database"
.\".IX  "make yellow pages database"  ""  "make yellow pages database \(em \f2ypinit\fP"
.\".IX  "create yellow pages database"  ""  "create yellow pages database \(em \f2ypinit\fP"
.\".IX  "build yellow pages database"  ""  "build yellow pages database \(em \f2ypinit\fP"
.\".IX  "install yellow pages database"  ""  "install yellow pages database \(em \f2ypinit\fP"
.\".IX  "yellow pages"  "make database"  ""  "make database \(em \f2ypinit\fP"
.I Ypinit
sets up a yellow pages database on a YP server.
It can be used to set up a master or a slave server.
You must be the superuser to run it.
It asks a few,
self-explanatory questions, 
and reports success or failure to the terminal.
For further information on yellow pages,
including setting up the database,
refer to the
.I "DYNIX NFS Adminstrator's Guide" ,
Chapter 3 ,
.I "Administering the Yellow Pages Service" .
.LP
It sets up a master server
using the simple model in which that server
is master to all maps in the data base.
This is the way to bootstrap the YP system;
if you want,
you can later change the association of maps to masters.
All databases are built from scratch,
either from information available to the program at runtime,
or from the ASCII data base files in
.IR /etc .
These files are listed below under
.B FILES .
All such files should be in their non-YP form,
rather than the abbreviated form used on client machines.
.LP
A YP database on a slave server is set up by copying
an existing database from a running server.  The
.I master_name
argument should be the hostname of YP server
(either the master server for all the maps,
or a server on which the data base is up-to-date and stable).
.LP
Refer to
.IR ypfiles (5)
and
.IR ypserv (8)
for an overview of the yellow pages.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-m
Indicates that the local host is to be the YP master.
.TP
.B \-s
Set up a slave database.
.SH FILES
.nf
/etc/ethers
/etc/group
/etc/hosts
/etc/netgroup
/etc/networks
/etc/passwd
/etc/protocols
/etc/rpc
/etc/services
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
ypfiles(5),
makedbm(8),
ypmake(8),
yppush(8),
ypserv(8),
ypxfr(8),
.I "DYNIX NFS Adminstrator's Guide"
