.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: ypmake.8 1.3 87/04/03 $
.\" @(#)ypmake.8 1.1 85/12/28 SMI; 
.TH YPMAKE 8 "\*(V)" "4BSD"
.SH NAME
ypmake \- rebuild yellow pages database
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "cd /etc/yp ; make"
[
.I map
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\".IX  "ypmake command"  ""  "\f2ypmake\fP \(em rebuild yellow pages database"
.\".IX  "rebuild yellow pages database"  ""  "rebuild yellow pages database \(em \f2ypmake\fP"
.\".IX  "yellow pages"  "rebuild database"  ""  "rebuild database \(em \f2ypmake\fP"
The file called
.I Makefile
in
.I /etc/yp
is used by 
.I make
to build the yellow pages database.
With no arguments,
.I make
creates
.I dbm
databases for any YP maps that are out-of-date
and executes
.I yppush 
to notify slave databases that there has been a change.
.LP
If you supply a
.I map
on the command line,
.I make
only updates that map.
Typing
.I "make passwd"
creates and
.IR yppush es
the password database (assuming it is out of date).
Likewise,
.I "make hosts"
and
.I "make networks"
creates and
.IR yppush es
the host and network files,
.I /etc/hosts
and
.IR /etc/networks ,
respectively.
.LP
There are three special variables used by 
.IR make :
.BR DIR ,
which gives the directory of the source files;
.BR NOPUSH ,
which when non-null inhibits doing a
.I yppush
of the new database files;
and
.BR DOM ,
used to construct a domain other than the master's default domain.
The default for
.B DIR
is
.IR /etc ,
and the default for
.B NOPUSH
is the null string.
.LP
Refer to
.IR ypfiles (5)
and
.IR ypserv (8)
for an overview of the yellow pages.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
make(1),
makedbm(8),
ypserv(8)
