.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: yppasswdd.8c 1.4 87/04/07 $
.\" @(#)yppasswdd.8c 1.1 85/12/28 SMI
.TH YPPASSWDD 8C "\*(V)" "4BSD"
.SH NAME
yppasswdd \- server for modifying yellow pages password file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/etc/rpc.yppasswdd
.I file
[
.B \-m
.I "arg1 arg2"
\&... ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\".IX  "yypasswdd command"  ""  "\f2yppasswdd\fP \(em yellow pages password server"
.\".IX  servers  yppasswdd  ""  "\f2yppasswdd\fP \(em yellow pages password server"
.I Yppasswdd
is a server that handles password change requests from
.IR yppasswd (1).
It changes a password entry in
.IR file ,
which is assumed to be in the format of
.IR passwd (5).
An entry in
.I file
is changed only if the password presented by
.IR yppasswd (1)
matches the encrypted password of that entry.
.LP
If the
.B \-m
option is given,
.IR make (1)
is performed in
.I /etc/yp
after
.I file
is modified.
Any arguments following the flag are passed to
.IR make .
.LP
This server is not run by default, nor can it be started up from
.IR inetd (8).
If it is desired to enable remote password updating for the yellow pages,
an entry for
.I yppasswdd
should be put in the
.I /etc/rc
file of the host serving as the master for the yellow pages
.I passwd
file.
.SH EXAMPLE
.LP
If the yellow pages password file is stored as
.IR /etc/yp/src/passwd ,
and it is necessary to have password changes propagated immediately,
the server should be invoked as
.Ps
/usr/etc/rpc.yppasswdd /etc/yp/src/passwd \-m passwd DIR=/etc/yp/src
.Pe
.SH FILES
/etc/yp/Makefile
.SH "SEE ALSO"
yppasswd(1),
passwd(5),
ypfiles(5),
ypmake(8)
.\" If anyone complains, I'll put this back.
.\"	.SH CAVEAT
.\"	This server will eventually be replaced with a more general
.\"	service for modifying any map in the yellow pages.
.\"	\f3(Is this necessary?)\fP
