.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: yppoll.8 1.4 90/07/08 $
.\" @(#)yppoll.8 1.1 85/12/28 SMI; 
.TH YPPOLL 8 "\*(V)" "4BSD"
.SH NAME
yppoll - what version of a YP map is at a YP server host
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B yppoll
[ \fB-h \fIhost\fR ]
[ \fB-d \fIdomain\fR ]
.I mapname
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Yppoll 
asks a 
.I ypserv 
process what the order number is, and which host
is the master YP server for the named map.  
If the server is a
v.1 YP protocol server, 
.I yppoll
uses the older protocol to communciate with 
it.  In this case, it also uses the older diagnostic messages in
case of failure.   
.PP
.I Yppoll
relies on
.I ypbind
to communicate with
.I ypserv.
This means that 
.I ypbind
must be running in order to use
.I yppoll.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 10
\f3\-h \f2host\fP
Ask the 
.I ypserv 
process at
.I host
about the map parameters.
If 
.I host 
isn't specified, the YP server for the local host is used.
That is, the default host is the one returned by
.IR ypwhich (1).
.TP 10
\f3\-d \f2domain\fP
Use
.I domain
instead of the default domain.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
ypfiles(5),
ypserv(8),
ypbind(8)
