.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: yppush.8 1.3 87/04/07 $
.\" @(#)yppush.8 1.1 85/12/28 SMI; 
.TH YPPUSH 8 "\*(V)" "4BSD"
.SH NAME
yppush - force propagation of a changed YP map
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B yppush
[
.B \-d
.I domain 
] 
[
.B \-v
]
.I mapname
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.I Yppush
copies a new version of a Yellow Pages (YP) 
map from the master YP server to the
slave YP servers.
It is normally run only on the master YP server by the 
.IR Makefile
in
.IR /usr/etc/yp
after the master databases are changed.
It first constructs a list of YP server hosts by reading the YP map 
.I ypservers
within the 
.IR domain .  
Keys within the map
.I ypservers
are the ASCII names of the machines on which the YP servers
run.  
.LP
A
.I "transfer map"
request is sent to the YP server at each host, 
along with the information needed by the transfer agent,
which actually moves the map,
to call back the 
.I yppush .
When the attempt is completed (successfully or not) and the
transfer agent has sent
.I yppush 
a status message,
the results can be printed to stdout,
if the
.B \-v
option is set.
Messages are also printed when a transfer is not possible;
such as when the request message is undeliverable,
or the timeout period on responses has expired.
.LP
Refer to
.IR ypfiles (5)
and
.IR ypserv (8)
for an overview of the yellow pages.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-d
Specify a 
.IR domain .
.TP
.B \-v
Verbose.  
This causes messages to be printed when each server is called, and for
each response.
If this flag is omitted, only error messages are printed.
.SH FILES
/etc/yp/\f2domainname\fP/ypservers.{dir, pag}
.SH "SEE ALSO"
ypfiles(5),
ypserv(8),
ypxfr(8),
YP Protocol Specification
.SH BUGS
.LP
In the current implementation (version 2 YP protocol), the transfer agent is
\f2ypxfr\fP\|, which is started by the 
.I ypserv 
program.
If 
.I yppush
detects that it is speaking to a version 1 YP protocol 
server, it uses the older protocol, sending a version 1 YPPROC_GET
request and issues a message to that effect.  
Unfortunately, there is no way of knowing 
if or when the map transfer is performed for version 1 servers.
.I Yppush
prints a message saying that an
.I old-style
message has been sent.
The system administrator should later check to see that the
transfer has actually taken place.
