.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: ypset.8 1.4 90/06/01 $
.\" @(#)ypset.8 1.1 85/12/28 SMI; 
.TH YPSET 8 "\*(V)" "4BSD"
.SH NAME
ypset - point ypbind at a particular server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ypset
[
.BR \-V1\| | \|\-V2
] 
[ \fB-h \fIhost\fR ]
[ \fB-d \fIdomain\fR ]
.I server
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Ypset 
tells 
.I ypbind 
to get YP services for the specified
.I domain 
from the 
.I ypserv 
process running on 
.IR server .
If 
.I server
is down, or isn't running 
.IR ypserv , 
this is not discovered until a YP client process tries to 
get a binding for the domain.  At this point, the binding set by
.I ypset
is tested by 
.IR ypbind .  
If 
the binding is invalid, 
.I ypbind
attempts to rebind for the same domain.
.LP
.I Ypset 
is useful for binding a client node that is either not on a broadcast net,
or is on a broadcast net that isn't running a YP server host.  
Keep in mind that when doing this, the IP address should be given
so as to avoid YP host lookups.  Since the client is not bound to
a server (and has no way to make such a binding), these requests would hang.
.LP
.I Ypset
is also useful for debugging YP client applications,
such as when a YP map exists at only a single YP server host.  
.LP
In cases where several hosts on the local net are supplying YP services, it
is possible for 
.I ypbind 
to rebind to another host even while you attempt to
find out if the 
.I ypset 
operation succeeded.  That is, you can type
.Ps
ypset host1
.Pe
and then
.Ps
ypwhich
.Pe
that replies
.Ps
host2
.Pe
which can be confusing.
This is a function of the YP subsystem's attempt to
load-balance among the available YP servers, and occurs when
.I host1
does not respond to 
.I ypbind 
because it is not running 
.I ypserv 
(or is overloaded), and
.IR host2 ,
running
.IR ypserv ,
gets the binding.
.LP
.I Server
indicates the YP server to bind to, and
can be specified
as a name or an IP address.  If specified as a name,
.I ypset 
attempts to use YP services to resolve the name to an IP address.  
This works only if
the node has a current valid binding for the domain in question.  
In most cases,
.I server
should be specified as an IP address.
.LP
Refer to
.IR ypfiles (5)
and
.IR ypserv (8)
for an overview of the yellow pages.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 10
.B \-V1
Bind
.I server
for the (old) v.1 YP protocol.
.TP 10
.B \-V2
Bind
.I server
for the (current) v.2 YP protocol.  
.IP
If no version is supplied, 
.I ypset
first attempts to set the domain for the (current) v.2 protocol.
If this fails, 
.I ypset
attempts to set the domain for the (old) v.1 protocol.
.TP 10
\f3\-h \f2host\fR
Set ypbind's binding on 
.IR host ,
instead of locally.  
.I Host
can be specified as a name or as an IP address.  
.TP 10
\f3\-d \f2domain\fR
Use
.I domain ,
instead of the default domain.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
ypwhich(1),
ypfiles(5),
ypserv(8)
