.\" $Copyright:	$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 
.\" Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\" This software is furnished under a license and may be used
.\" only in accordance with the terms of that license and with the
.\" inclusion of the above copyright notice.   This software may not
.\" be provided or otherwise made available to, or used by, any
.\" other person.  No title to or ownership of the software is
.\" hereby transferred.
...
.V= $Header: ypxfr.8 1.4 87/07/24 $
.\" @(#)ypxfr.8 1.1 85/12/28 SMI; 
.TH YPXFR 8 "\*(V)" "4BSD"
.SH NAME
ypxfr - transfer a YP map from some YP server to here
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ypxfr
[
.B \-f
] 
[ \fB-h \fIhost\fR ]
[ \fB-d \fIdomain\fR ]
[
.B \-c
] 
[ \fB-C\fR
.I "tid prog ipadd port"
]
.I mapname
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Ypxfr 
moves a YP map to the local host by making use of normal YP services.
It creates a temporary map in the directory 
.I /etc/yp/domain
(which must already exist),
fills it by enumerating the map's entries, fetches the
map parameters (master and order number) and loads them.
It then deletes any old versions of the map and moves the 
temporary map to the real mapname.
.LP
If 
.I ypxfr 
is run interactively, it writes its output to the terminal.
However, if it's invoked without a controlling terminal and the
log file 
.I /etc/yp/ypxfr.log
exists, it appends all of its output to that file.  Since 
.I ypxfr 
is most often run from 
.I /usr/lib/crontab
or by
.IR ypserv ,
you can use the log file to retain a record of what was attempted
and the results.
.LP
For consistency between servers,
.I ypxfr 
should be run periodically for every map in the YP data base. 
Different maps change at different
rates.
For example, the
.I services.byname
map might not change for months at a time, and therefore might
need checking only once a day in the wee hours.
However,
.I hosts.byname
could change several times per day.
In such a case, you might want to check hourly for updates.
A
.IR crontab (5)
entry can be used to perform periodic updates automatically.  
Rather than having a separate
.I crontab
entry for each map,
you can group commands to update several maps 
in a shell script.
Examples (mnemonically named) are in 
.IR /etc/yp :
.IR ypxfr_1perday.sh , 
.IR ypxfr_2perday.sh , 
and
.I ypxfr_1perhour.sh .
They can serve as reasonable first cuts.
.LP
Refer to
.IR ypfiles (5)
and
.IR ypserv (8)
for an overview of the yellow pages.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 15
.B\-f
Force the transfer to occur even if the version at the master is not 
more recent than the local version.
.TP 15
.B\-c
Don't send a
.I "Clear current map"
request to the local 
.I ypserv 
process.
Use this flag if 
.I ypserv 
is not running locally at the time you are running
.IR ypxfr .  
Otherwise,
.I ypxfr 
complains that it can't talk to the local
.IR ypserv , 
and the transfer fails.
.TP 15
\f3\-h \f2host\fR
Get the map from
.IR host ,
regardless of what the map says the master is.  If 
.I host 
is not specified,
.I ypxfr 
asks the YP service for the name of the master, and tries to get the 
map from there.
.I Host
can be a name or an internet address in the form 
.IR "a.b.c.d" .
.TP 15
\f3\-d \f2domain\fR
Specify a domain other than the default domain.
.TP 15
\f3\-C \f2tid prog ipadd port\fR
This option is for use by
.I ypserv
only.
When  
.I ypserv
invokes 
.IR ypxfr , 
it specifies that 
.I ypxfr
should call back a
.I yppush
process at the host with IP address
.IR ipaddr ,
registered as program number
.IR prog ,
listening on port
.IR port ,
and waiting for a response to transaction
.IR tid .
.SH FILES
/etc/yp/ypxfr.log
.br
/etc/yp/ypxfr_1perday.sh
.br
/etc/yp/ypxfr_2perday.sh
.br
/etc/yp/ypxfr_1perhour.sh
.br
/usr/lib/crontab
.SH "SEE ALSO"
ypfiles(5),
yppush(8),
ypserv(8),
YP protocol spec
