.TH DIRECTORY 3C "Standard Extension"
.SH NAME
opendir, readdir, telldir, seekdir, rewinddir, closedir \- directory operations
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "#include <dir.h>"
.PP
.B "DIR \(**opendir (filename)"
.br
.B "char \(**filename;"
.PP
.B "struct direct \(**readdir (dirp)"
.br
.B "DIR \(**dirp;"
.PP
.B "long telldir (dirp)"
.br
.B "DIR \(**dirp;"
.PP
.B "void seekdir (dirp, loc)"
.br
.B "DIR \(**dirp;"
.br
.B "long loc;"
.PP
.B "void rewinddir (dirp)"
.br
.B "DIR \(**dirp;"
.PP
.B "void closedir(dirp)"
.br
.B "DIR \(**dirp;"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Opendir\^
opens the directory named by
.IR filename\^ ,
associates a
``directory stream''
with it,
and
returns a pointer to be used to identify the
directory stream
in subsequent operations.
.SM
.B NULL
is returned if
.I filename\^
cannot be accessed or is not a directory,
or if not enough memory can be obtained via
.IR malloc\^ (3C)
to hold a
.SM
.B DIR
structure.
.PP
.I Readdir\^
returns a pointer to the next directory entry
and advances the ``current position'' of the
directory stream.
It returns
.SM
.B NULL
upon reaching the end of the directory or
upon detecting an invalid previous
.I seekdir\^
operation.
.PP
.I Telldir\^
returns the current position associated with the
directory stream.
.PP
.I Seekdir\^
sets the position for the next
.I readdir\^
operation on the
directory stream.
The new position reverts to the one associated with the
directory stream
when the previous
.I telldir\^
operation from which
.I loc\^
was obtained was performed.
Values returned by
.I telldir\^
are good only for the lifetime of
the
.SM
.B DIR
structure from which they are derived.
If the directory is closed and then reopened,
the location value from
.I telldir\^
may be invalidated
due to undetected directory compaction.
It is safe to use a previous
.I telldir\^
value immediately after a call to
.I opendir\^
and before any calls to
.IR readdir\^ .
.PP
.I Rewinddir\^
resets the position of the
directory stream
to the beginning of the directory.
.PP
.I Closedir\^
closes the
directory stream
and frees the associated
.SM
.B DIR
structure.
.SH EXAMPLE
Sample code which searches a directory for an entry matching
.IR name\^ :
.PP
.br
	dirp = opendir( "." );
.br
	while ( (dp = readdir( dirp )) != NULL )
.br
		if ( strcmp( dp\->d_name, name ) == 0 )
.br
			{
.br
			closedir( dirp );
.br
			return FOUND;
.br
			}
.br
	closedir( dirp );
.br
	return NOT_FOUND;
.SH "SEE ALSO"
open(2), close(2), read(2), lseek(2),
ftw(3C).
.SH WARNINGS
.I Rewinddir\^
is implemented as a macro,
so its function address cannot be taken.
.PP
All UNIX programs which examine directories
should be converted to use this package,
since directory format is no longer the same on all UNIX systems.
Unfortunately,
this package is not yet
supplied with all UNIX systems,
although public-domain source code is available
from BRL.
